This is a Raspberry Pi 5, a credit card
size computer that literally fits in
your wallet. [music] And I am going to
run Claudebot with the latest Kimmy K
2.5 AI model inside it. For all of you
living under the stone, Claudebot, which
is now called Open Cloud, is basically
this souped up aentic version of an AI
assistant that perpetually runs on a
hardware. And the world is going crazy
right now behind it. There are Mac minis
that are literally selling out there
that people are now buying VPSs to host
this. But for a tinkerer like me,
Raspberry Pies are one of the best
solutions to run this. And I'll tell you
why. The reason is because I can hook up
any number of sensors with this
Raspberry Pi to sort of breathe in life
into my CloudBot. that is I can attach
temperature sensors, I can attach
cameras, I can attach pressure sensors
to basically make this bot even more
alive. And I'm going to be testing all
of this with the latest and the greatest
open-source AI model from Moonshot
called Kimmy K2.5. This model is really
fun to chat with and I'm already
enjoying it a lot. I've been doing job
searches. I've been staying ahead of the
competition in terms of what research is
coming in. I have been just following
trends, thousands of impression on X and
all of this work is just automated
around the clock with cloudbot with open
cloud. All right, enough talking. Let's
go into the screen and let's get
started. Let's superpower this piece of
hardware with the latest and the
greatest. So, I'm just fast forwarding
the process.
>> [music]
>> We'll basically go to the Raspberry Pi
Imager software. We'll basically
download it from [music] Google in my
case. Um once the software is
downloaded, feel free to open it and
then uh of course you need to install
it. So I'm installing it for Mac. Um it
could be for Windows for you. Once
you're done installing it, um please
open the software uh which I'm doing
right now. And once you open the
software to give it some permissions u
then of course right now I'm just
preparing the SD card. So, I'll select
the right version of the Raspberry Pi
image that I want to write to the SD
card. That's what I'm doing right now.
So, I'm selecting the uh 64bit version
for my case. Um, [music] and then you
have to select which SD card you want to
uh write this to. In my case, it's this.
And then you have to give it a name,
right? What do what do you want to call
the So, when you open the terminal, what
do you see? So, I'm calling it Jansky.
Select the country of your residence.
Select the time zone. All of these are
like basic details so that it knows
which time it to boot up to. Um and then
once it's connected to the internet, of
course, it'll fetch time from the
internet. Anyways, so do all of that and
then do remember to sort of put in your
Wi-Fi credentials and passwords. um as
this will basically uh help the Pi when
it boots up to connect or to connect to
the Wi-Fi and in return this will really
help you to basically uh just [music]
SSH into it out of the box, right? And
so this is exactly what I'm showing
here. So when you go to the next screen,
please remember to turn on the SSH. That
way you don't really need to connect the
Pi to anything. But I'll show you
nonetheless if you don't do this. Uh,
with that, just continue and let it load
and then do whatever you want to do in
between. And then once that's done,
[music] you should be good to go.
>> All right. So, once you have the card
ready to go, you can simply turn this
thing upside down and insert [music] the
card here. A power brick that um my
Raspberry Pi came with. I recommend
using power bricks that [music]
have ratings up to 25 watts. So, 5 volts
at 5 uh amps uh which is 25 [music]
watts. It doesn't consume that much, but
it's just good to have. All right, now
let's power this guy up. And we [music]
should be directly able to SSH. And
remember, we set the um Wi-Fi
credentials and we turned on [music] the
SSH server. In case you were wondering,
this is how it looks like when you first
log in. So, what do you do first? in
order to find out what the IP address of
this guy is. IP ADR and uh hit enter 8
and then it will show you the [music] IP
address which is right now
192.168.40.249.
So you just need to remember that. Okay.
So there are essentially two ways. So
either you could directly SSH in to Jens
average Jensen key.
Since it's connected to the local
network, this is the easiest way to do
it. So once you hit enter for the first
time, you have to hit yes. And then
it'll ask you for the password. The
password in this case is Jensen key
itself.
And there you go. You are right now
inside the Raspberry Pi. The other way
to do it would be to now that we noted
down the IP address. Uh the other way to
do this would be to SSH. We hit enter.
Same process. Yes. Password is same. And
there you go. So there are literally two
ways to do it. All right. Now that we
are actually in the Raspberry Pi, you
could literally ask it that [music] who
is it and it'll tell you that it's
Jansky. That's what I'm calling the
Raspberry Pi. Now the thing that you
have to go is now we can directly go to
the cloudbot which is our maltbots
website and start downloading it as is.
[music] So let's do that right and the
easiest way to do it since we're doing
this in a Linux environment this is a
oneliner should work everywhere as
they're saying. So [music] let's copy it
and let us actually paste it here and
let's see what happens. All right it is
actually installing it. Let's uh give it
some time since we just downloaded it
right fresh. The uh actual Raspberry Pi
OS actually has a lot of the latest
packages. So all it needs to I guess
download it is not NodeJS because a lot
of the front end for the Cloudbot is
actually built uh using NodeJS, right?
So it's installing all of that. [music]
Uh but other than that, it mostly has um
everything that it needs uh to work. So
it's pretty fast. So it just installed
um npm um [music] git is already
installed. So it's pretty much setting
itself up. Uh basically it's actually
installing the moldbot right now. Again
we just got to be patient. There you go.
Moldbot is installed successfully. All
right let's go. This is the onboarding
screen that they have. I'm sure you must
have seen it in bunch of other channels.
So of course like it gives you a warning
that hey just try it in some kind of a
mental proper environment and [music]
just be careful. So I some kind of a
sandbox and just be careful [music]
right. So that is exactly what we're
doing. We are running this on a cheap
Raspberry Pi pocketsiz computer which is
[music] absolutely cheap. It's basically
a computer in itself. It's just
literally size of your credit card.
[music] Has everything in it. So we're
running it locally here. we so not going
to give access to everything personal so
rest assured it's all [music] right so I
will say that I understand it and uh and
we will do a quick start process [music]
so for the API I'm actually planning to
use the Kimmy K2 uh API not K2 I'm
actually planning to use the Kimmy uh
K2.5 the the latest model right so the
way to do this is we would head to
[music] Kim's uh Kimy's console platform
that's where they basically have their
API keys. Well, I literally used a
bunch. I used almost $14 worth of API uh
because I was actually running this on
my mobile phone. I made a video on that.
Uh it should be flashing up there. Also
link um in the description. Watch that
video that basically showed me using
[music] Kimmy K2 with my cloudbot. And
it honestly according to me did really
good. But before we go ahead, we need to
recharge [music] this. So, let me
quickly recharge this with I'll just pay
$10. So, now so I actually just
recharged it. So, I have like fresh $10
more dollars to try this out. And
[music] it says Kimmy K 2.5 multimodal
model has been released. And I actually
want to use this with my [music]
cloudbot, right? So, what I will do is I
will basically create a [music] new um
API key. As you can see, I already made
one before, but I will essentially
make another one. I'm going to call it
Jensen keybot, which is my personal
cloudbot default. And I will take it and
I'll copy it. Of course, do not share
your API keys with anyone. I will change
this right out of the video, but I'm
just showing it to you guys. So I'll
copy this and then we will go back to
our onboarding screen and hit enter. And
it asks me for u moonshot AI API key.
This is what I'm going to give. Let's
press enter. It's asking me keep the
current model. The current model is Kim
K2 the0905 version which is the old one.
But I actually want to use 2.5. So, I'll
hit model and then what I'll do is I'll
actually paste the exact name of the
[music] latest model. So, it's literally
Kimmy. Let's see what happens. Right,
I'm just doing this as we go. Again, I I
think this should work. Let's hit enter.
Apparently, it took it. Now, the next
step to get this up and running is to
select a kind of a messaging service you
want to interact this with. I don't want
to use WhatsApp just yet. I will use
telegram because just to be sure and
I've seen it's much easier to configure.
So let's [music] hit enter. Takes a
while to come up with the instructions
and exactly where to go and how to set
it up. I'll just show you [music] then
I'll set it up and then we'll continue
from there. Oh, there you go. So it
comes up with the information that we
need. So [music] it's telling me to go
to Telegram and chat with this guy
called Bfather. [music] So let's copy
that. Let's paste it here. Botfather.
This is the guy. This is our guy. And we
just got to hit start and then it will
run new bot. [music] That's the command
that we have to tell this bot. New bot.
All right. A new bot here. Choose a name
for a new I'm I'm going to call it
Jensen key. Okay. Call it usually.
[music] Good. Now, let me choose a
username for your engine bot. Uh I will
literally call it Jensbot_bot.
That's what I'm going to call it. Oh, I
guess that was me. Jansky the bot. Let's
do this. Whoops. The bot. I'm sure this
is not taken. [music] There you go.
[clears throat] So, it's called Jansky
the bot. So, it's giving me the um
access [music] token which I need to
copy and I need to basically paste it
here. There you go. Let's hit enter.
Cool. So, it updated that. Now, it's
telling me to configure uh the skills.
So the skills are what makes cloudbot
super interesting or sorry the moldbot
super interesting. So in terms of the
skill what we want to configure homebrew
install. Yes, let's install homebrew
because a lot of the packages actually
need homebrew to work. So it's just
easiest to do this right now rather than
do that later by [music] yourself. So
let's hit enter. Preferred is npm is
fine with me. Um [music] uh in my last
tutorial where I actually ran this on a
old Ubuntu mobile, I had to like do
everything manually and I had to go
through PNP. So I [music] would just go
with npm. It's the easiest. And in terms
of the skills, all right, [snorts] let's
see what we have. I'm not giving it
access to Apple notes or Apple
reminders. So I will skip [music]
actually for now. What I do want to do
is to be able to chat with it in a
normal way. So I might give it an openi
uh whisper key. So let me actually fetch
the open AI API API key. So let's go to
open AI. Let's log in
guys. There we go. [music] And then
let's go to login. All right. Let's log
in. And then let us go to API keys.
Exactly what we want. Before that I do
have to know if I have sufficient
balance. If not then full spend zero.
Does it not show me how much uh balance
I have? Credit balance. Hold on. Let me
check how much I had first before
[music] I I literally do not have any
money. So let us add some money. $10.
$10. Let's go to API keys. Let us
generate another one. color gen key
whatever I don't need you need to use
default project is fine with me let's
create one there you go open AI API key
is so we [music] will actually go ahead
and put in the open AI API key you can
do all of this later on I'm just
choosing to do it right [music] now
space to select Whoops open AI whisper I
also want that one place where it
[music] can actually talk back I think
it's um 11 labs API model uses Edge.
[snorts] Sure. EF1 looks fine. It cook
set Google API [music] key. No, not yet.
It's tempting, but no, thank you. For
image genen, I don't want to generate
[music] whisper API. Yes, let's do that.
Open AI API. [music] Is there a big API
key from OpenAI? 11 Labs. Now, this is
something I really want to try. Okay,
that's [music] how I do it. Now I do
have an 11 labs API. Let's do yes. Let's
paste it. Hooks I guess. Yes. Command
[music] logger. Yeah. Cool. These are
some of the hooks. So, do I want to log
all comments? It'll just increase the
memory. But [music] if you really want
to do good, I I can I'll just skip it.
Session memory. New command is issued.
Yes, I do want to save some of that.
[music] And let's hit enter. So now it's
actually installing the gateway service.
Basically, it's just an interface that
lets Cloudbot connect to the rest of the
internet and you can also access it. So
I can actually access [music] the
Cloudbot GUI um which is running on my
Pi through my local [music] laptop, the
one that I'm recording this on. So do
you want to hatch your bot? Yes, in the
terminal interface. Yes, I I do want to
do that right now. So every [music]
morning I've set up a crown job that it
returns me all the cool news of the day
with [music] tech, astronomy and just in
general everything that I'm interested
with. Also there's world news, there's
weather, there is inspiration about new
research paper that's coming up and all
kinds of stuff that a person in academia
and just in general tech just needs. So
I have that kind of crown job set up.
Every morning it goes and hunts. Also,
not only that, I've set up another crown
job where basically is working [music]
to give me job recommendations because I
will be applying for jobs very [music]
soon. So, all of that works. So, I'm
finding it really fascinating so far
working with this Cloudbot. I hope you
guys enjoyed this video. If this video
gets more than 100 likes, I will
basically install all kinds of sensors
and throw it into this Raspberry Pi
running my latest AI assistant and just
make it more aware. If you really want
to see that, hit the like button just
now.