You probably haven't heard of these AI
use cases that I'm about to show you.
First, let's start with shopping and
deals. These are use cases that I have
actually been using. Let's say you're
very familiar with one product and you
need to find something that's comparable
and to compare them. This happened to
me. I have had a Dyson vacuum that has
been broken for years. So, I wanted
something else. I wanted a comparable
vacuum from a different brand. So, here
we go. What's a comparable vacuum to
Dyson cordless? Short, simple, and look
what it gave me. So, what to look for?
Battery run time, suction power, and
floor head compatibility, filtration,
weight, versatility, and it gave me some
options. These Shark vacuums, these are
cordless. They look almost identical and
it says the Shark brand are higher
quality. Here it gives me a breakdown of
why I should choose Shark or these other
options over those Dyson vacuums. It
asked me some follow-up questions. tell
me your budget and main flooring type, I
can pick one to two best fits for you.
And I just said the Dyson broke all the
time. And so, it focused on product
quality. So, it told me Shark Stratos
cordless. And I ended up getting the
corded version, but I got a Shark. And
by the way, if you want 100 more use
cases for artificial intelligence, you
need to download our brand new guide,
100 use cases for AI. It is completely
free. All you need to do is subscribe to
our newsletter. I will drop the link
down below. Go get it right now for
free. Next, one of the most frustrating
things is buying an Apple product and
then a week later, the new refresh comes
out and you're kind of just out of luck.
The best time to buy any product is when
the most recent refresh occurs and that
is especially true with Apple. So, you
simply ask it, "Hey, I'm on the market
for a MacBook Air and I want to know
what's the best time to buy. When was
the last Air model released? How big a
step increase was it from the last
generation? When do you expect another
new model and when will it be released?"
There used to be entire websites
dedicated to knowing when to buy Apple
products. And by the way, this doesn't
just apply to Apple. This can apply to
any company, especially ones that have
very frequent releases. Here it asked me
to clarify which Air size am I
interested in and what chip am I
interested in. But again, what I really
want to know is when's the best time to
buy the latest version. So, it gives me
an entire breakdown of the differences,
the changes. I don't really want to read
through this. I just want it to tell me,
is it a good time to buy? And at the
very bottom, for the buyer who
prioritizes getting the newest Apple
silicon in the MacBook Air, you should
purchase it right after the chip update
given the March 2025 M4 release and its
clear advantages over the previous
generations, now is an excellent time to
buy. And it even gives me its update
schedule. So, Apple typically updates
the MacBook Air roughly once per year.
The M2 was July 2022, M3 March 2024, and
M4 March 2025. So, the best time to
purchase, right now. And you can also
ask it about discounts or special deals
that they have. So, here's one for an
Aventon, which is an electric bike.
Chances that Aventon will put the new
Aventon Abound SR on sale for Black
Friday this year. And it said, "Short
answer, moderate to low chance gets a
real Black Friday price cut. My best
estimate is 55 to 60% no discount, 30 to
35% small cut, and 5 to 10% meaningful
promo." And it of course backs it up
with information that it researched
itself. Now, let's move on to the
category food and home. First is tech
support. This is something that I use AI
for all the time. So, in this example, I
didn't even take a picture. We have an
Epson NX127, which is a printer. Power
and ink lights won't stop flashing. So,
it looked up the information, looked up
the manual, and here we go. Ink
cartridge recognition failure. One or
more cartridges may not be seated
correctly. Here we continue to work back
and forth with AI. I reinserted the
cartridges and now both lights are
solid. Solid power and ink lights on
means it's stuck on an ink-related
error. And so, we went back and forth a
number of times, ultimately solving the
problem. Here's another example. My
Apple TV keeps saying no signal after 5
minutes of watching. Common causes and
fixes. HDMI handshake issue. Try a
different HDMI port or cable. This is
the first suggestion it gave me. I tried
a new HDMI cord and it fixed it. So
easy. All right, recipes is a very
popular use case for AI. And one thing
that I use it for is if I have a recipe
and I don't have one item, I simply tell
AI which items I'm missing and then ask
what are good substitutions for it. So,
let me show you. Give me a recipe for
salsa. So, fresh salsa pico de gallo.
Here's the recipe. And let's say you
don't have one of these things. You can
simply tell it, "I don't have this
ingredient. Give me a replacement." Or
you can even take a picture of your
fridge or your cabinet, upload it and
say, "I don't have this ingredient, but
what else from what you see can be
substituted?" So, I said, "I don't have
white onions, only yellow. Will that
work?" Yes, yellow onions will work
fine. They're a bit sweeter, so chop
them finely and add a touch more lime or
salt to balance. So, you can really use
it as a chef partner while you're
cooking. All right, and next is animal
identification. So, this is actually one
that I just used the other day. I just
moved into my house and I found these
gross little bugs on the floor in a few
different places in my house. So, I took
a picture. Here's what that looks like.
And I said, "What bug is this?" And
that's a termite. A lot to eat. These
appear during swarming season, usually
after rain or in warm weather. Now, as
soon as I heard termite, I got very
worried. But it did say it occurs after
rain and it did just rain. So, it's
okay. And quickly, you can run most of
these use cases locally on your
computer. Let me tell you about it.
Thank you to Dell Technologies for
sponsoring this portion of the video.
Dell's Pro Max family of PCs are
incredibly powerful for AI workloads.
Using the new Grace Blackwell series of
NVIDIA GPUs, including GB300 and GB10.
These are absolute monster GPUs in your
desktop. Learn more about Dell Pro Max
GB10 and GB300 and the Dell Pro Max
lineup of workstations with NVIDIA RTX
Pro GPUs. Click the link in the
description below. Let them know I sent
you. Check it out. The next category is
productivity and organization. Let's get
into it. As many of you probably know, I
moved back to the Bay Area to be closer
to tech and the AI industry. And as part
of that, we want to build out a studio
in San Francisco. And I'm starting to do
some research on office leases and
pricing. And of course, what a great use
case for AI. So, I took a specific
building that I liked and I said, "How
much is 86 Gramercy Suite 120 leasing
price, Presidio, San Francisco?" Now,
the pricing was not published publicly.
You actually have to call and it knew
that. But it asked me if I wanted to
pull comps, which are comparable. So,
what are the prices of buildings that
have been leased out in the area over
the last 6 months, let's say. So, we
pulled comps and it gave me a bunch of
options showing how much it is per
square foot per year in different areas.
Here I asked for another specific
address. Then I said, "Okay, give me the
average price per square foot in
different areas of San Francisco for
office leasing." So, here's the
peninsula, financial district, class B
SF average, class A SF average, and
overall asking price average. So, this
is a great way to do deep research on
real estate, not only for leasing office
space, but also if you're renting your
house, if you're buying a house, this is
a fantastic way to get a sense of the
market. All right, next, let's say you
do a lot of the same work in a document
each week, which we do at Ford Future.
We prepare a document for every live
show we do. By the way, live show every
Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.
Pacific. Definitely check it out. Now,
for that live show, we have this
document and we've done it every single
week and it's kind of repetitive and
kind of time-consuming to create this
document each time. So, watch what we
can do instead. So, in Gemini, we're
going to add from Google Drive. You find
the documents. We can select a few of
them. Then, we're going to hit insert.
And now, we're going to tell it to
create kind of a template for going
forward. So, here are three similarly
formatted documents where I track work
we do to prepare for live shows. I want
to create a new version formatted around
a new approach. Please make the new
version only cover these sections as we
prepare for future shows. So, in this
example, we're taking our previous work
and we're modifying the template for
future documents. And at the end, we get
it. We have it based on the previous
documents with those changes that we
just suggested. Another thing I've been
doing a ton of recently is using ChatGPT
to negotiate with my calendar. That
sometimes means adding things to my
calendar, other times it means asking
about my availability. Watch this use
case and then let me show you one more
right after that is incredible. So,
please add two 1-hour chunks, one in the
morning, one in the afternoon, that fit
my calendar availability for me to have
heads-down work time. Add to Google Cal
or give me links to add events. Now, you
can set up a ChatGPT connector directly
to your Google calendar. But sometimes
it doesn't work. Sometimes, even though
you say, "Hey, add this to my calendar,"
it says, "Well, I don't have a
connection to it." Even though you do.
So, the workaround to that is to simply
have it create you a link with all the
relevant information about the event you
want to create, and then it'll just tell
you to click on it, which is what we see
here.
So, you're busy for the live show
walk-through. Here are two times that
you're available, and then we can simply
click on these links, which add the
event directly to my calendar. All
right, next in Claude, you can connect
to Airbnb and actually search for your
next trip with Airbnb through Claude.
So, find five options for Airbnbs in
Hawaii the first week of January
starting January 2nd. I would like
options that are modestly priced, are
superhosts, have on-site parking, and it
would be great if they have views of the
ocean and not be too far from the beach.
Please use the Airbnb connector. And it
does. So, here it found some options,
gave me the prices, gave me the stars,
and then it gave me its top
recommendation. Now, I can continue
going back and forth refining my search
with Claude instead of to go through the
very manual search process on Airbnb.
It's kind of like having a little travel
booking assistant. And here's another
incredible use case. I'm sure most of
you have used Google Maps before, and
it's great. You can search for
restaurants, you can search for other
locations, you can get directions. But
what if you can go a little bit further?
So, here, show me a route from SF to
Oakland. Totally normal stuff you could
do with regular Google Maps. But now,
with Gemini plus Google Maps, look what
we can do. I need to find a good Thai
restaurant near my destination that
isn't too noisy. Can you do some
research, make some suggestions, and
plot the options on a map? So, it found
the restaurants, gave me an atmosphere
rating, address, website, a bunch of
different pictures from each of them,
showed me where it is in an actual
interactive map, and then you can say,
"Okay, then put together the route." Or,
"Oh, I need to be at this other
location. Am I going to have enough
time?" And it's basically a really nice
way to have a natural language
conversation with your map. All right,
next you can connect Spotify to Claude,
and you can control Spotify with Claude.
So, whether that means just in natural
language asking it to skip a song, which
is obviously very easy, but you can also
ask it to put together different
playlists for you depending on your
mood, depending on what kind of party
you're having. So, next Spotify song,
please. Hit enter.
It's thinking. Obviously, it's much
faster just to hit next track in
whatever Spotify app you're using, but
it's cool to know you can do this. You
can also give it kind of rough
suggestions of what kind of music you
want to hear. So, maybe something more
low-fi better for morning work. So, it's
going to research what type of music fit
that filter. And so, here we go. We can
actually see the connector at work. It's
saying, "Okay, play this playlist." You
can deny, always allow, or allow once,
and it just starts playing what you
want. All right, next. Sora has been out
for a couple weeks now. Hopefully,
you've played around with it. By the
way, it is awesome, and you can use my
likeness in Sora, so go ahead have fun
with it. But if you want to know how to
get the most out of Sora, we actually
asked ChatGPT, "What are the best
practices for getting the most out of
Sora?" It did deep research. It put that
all together for me. Really cool, but
that's not all. What we actually were
able to do with it is create a GPT, a
custom GPT, which is essentially a
reusable ChatGPT that always has context
of what we gave it. And in this example,
it is a Sora prompting GPT. So, all you
have to do is give this GPT a very rough
description of what you want to create
in Sora, and it will draft the perfect
prompt for you. So, here's an example. I
want to make a prompt of Matthew Berman
and Jonah Lipsitz dancing in a field
giggling with balloons, and there we go.
So, it includes everything we need to
create the perfect prompt for Sora. And
if you want to know what that looks
like,
>> [laughter]
>> here it is. Now, if you notice here, it
says www.forwardfuture.ai.
By the way, that's our newsletter. If
you haven't checked it out, please do.
It is amazing. Keep up to date with all
the latest news in the AI industry. But
there's a reason it says that there, and
I want to show you that next. So, what
you can actually do in Sora is kind of
get free advertising. And the way to do
that is to control how your likeness is
used by others. Now, I simply said,
"Promote forwardfuture.ai
somewhere in the video." And that's what
you're seeing. And actually, Mark Cuban
was the first one to do this. Anytime
somebody used his likeness, it would say
something about Cost Plus Drugs, his
company, somewhere on the screen. Kind
of a fun way to not only let people use
your likeness, but also get something
out of it. All right, this next example
is really cool. If you've ever wanted to
try to envision what your dream house
might look like, there are multiple
steps in creating really cool kind of
vision boards and videos of what that
would be. So, this is Gemini. We're
using Nano Banana. Prompt a breathtaking
modern dream home perched on a rugged
seaside cliff at golden hour, vast
panoramic ocean views, and so on. And
here is the first image it created. An
absolutely gorgeous house. Then I said,
"Show me the view directly out of the
window from the living room." So, same
house, just a different view. What about
the kitchen? Here that is. Is there a
front yard? Sure. Main bedroom, main
bathroom, downstairs vault where I store
my Smurfs. Yes.
And that's really cool, but what if we
wanted to turn it into a real estate
video showing off that property? Well,
of course, we can do that. So, in
Google's Flow feature, which basically
takes video videos and ties them
together, so it's kind of a longer video
with natural cuts, and it's really neat
if you haven't used it. So, I take the
original prompt. I say no voiceover at
the end. I set the aspect ratio, the
outputs per prompt, and the model video
3.1. And finally, I upload all of those
images that I just created. And the
result? Well, let me show you. There's
some music and some sound effects in the
background, but I'm not going to play
it, but we have this beautiful house,
and we get to see it from different
angles, from different rooms. Obviously,
there's still a little bit of issues
with morphing and stuff like that, but I
think this looks great, and it's a great
way to envision your dream house. All
right, next. Here's one that's kind of
just for fun. You can see what you would
look like at any age. So, here I
uploaded a headshot of myself. Make me
an image of this man as a young child.
And there I go. Although, I had a
straight blonde hair, believe it or not.
Then I said, "Make me an image of this
man as a 99-year-old." And here we go.
That's what that looks like. So, try to
imagine yourself at any age. Quick fun
one. Now, here's another fun one that
you can do with Google AI Studio. This
is called Gemini Co-drawing, and I'll
drop a link to it down below. So, you
just start drawing like you would
Microsoft Paint, and you can actually
have it clean up your drawing, add
things to your drawing all while you are
doing the drawing yourself. So, here,
make the head more circular and add
ears. And there we go. Then I'm going to
continue drawing the stick figure, but I
want it to be a little bit nicer than a
stick figure. I simply tell it what I
want, and it will do that. So, make the
hands and feet look more like hands and
feet. Let's see what it does. And of
course, it is following the style that
it's starting with. And there we go. So,
have fun with co-drawing in Google AI
Studio. All right, and if you've not
used Grok, you should definitely use it.
It is the only model that has direct
unfiltered access to the X feed. And
with that, you can do some incredible
analysis of different trending topics.
So, please conduct some tweet trend
analysis from last 6 months compared to
previous 6 months regarding mentions of
quantum computing breakthroughs. Include
a graph and list of tweet examples. So,
it did a ton of research, included
different posts from different times on
different themes, and how those themes
trend over time. And it pulled out
example tweets, and it did some
sentiment analysis right there. So,
great way to do research on whatever
topic you want, whether for work or
personal. And Google Notebook LM came
out with a really cool feature that lets
you animate a picture book based on any
topic that you want. If you're not
already familiar with Notebook LM, it
allows you to upload any documents,
PDFs, books, articles, anything, and
Notebook LM will create an audio podcast
with two people discussing whatever
topic that you want to learn about. So,
here I'm taking a very complicated
research paper about OCR. I uploaded it.
Then I'm going to go down, and we can
actually create a video overview. So, we
select our style. We also explicitly say
what we want the AI hosts to focus on.
And here's the output. Let me show you.
Have you ever felt like you're in a
fight with your computer just trying to
get it to understand a simple document?
I mean, we've all been there. Well, what
if I told you there's a new technology
that's teaching computers to read not
just the words, but the actual meaning
and structure behind them. Today, we're
going to dive into a genuinely smarter
way for So, I'm going to pause it. This
is a 6 and 1/2 minute video with
different visuals along the way, and you
can either listen to it as an audio only
or watch the images along the way. So, I
think this is really cool. If you want
to see this example, I'll also drop the
link to it down below. All right, next.
You can get explanations of what a video
is about. And by the way, this is done
with ChatGPT Atlas and agent mode. So,
you do need a paid account just for this
use case. But I'll show you another
option where you don't. But watch this.
We give it a video, and we say, "Please
watch this movie and find moments in
which Sam Altman laughs or looks like he
is about to laugh. Give me a list." So,
if I click into it, we can actually see
ChatGPT Atlas working and watching
through the video. So, this is what it
actually did. And they actually pulled
out the timestamps of when he laughed or
was about to laugh. Now, the other AI
that is free and can kind of do
something very similar is Gemini. Gemini
is really the only model that I've seen
where you can actually upload full
videos and it will watch the video. It's
not looking at the transcript. It's not
looking at frames kind of interspersed
throughout the video. It is actually
watching it frame by frame through the
whole video. So, in Google AI studio,
you come in, you make sure you have
Gemini 2.5 Pro selected, you come down
here, you paste in the video, and as you
can see it immediately loads it up,
starts extracting the videos, and since
we have such a large context window to
work with, I believe we can have up to a
30-minute or 40-minute video. This video
of mine was 347,000 tokens out of a
million context budget that we have. And
we can ask any questions to it. So, I
can say, "What color sweater is the host
wearing?" And again, that's a very
simple example, but you can ask
anything, even down to tiny little
details in just a few frames of the
video. You can ask anything. So, from
the beginning of the video until
approximately 5:22, he's wearing a
tie-dye hoodie with a mix of light blue,
yellow, pink, and white. From that to
the end, he's wearing a dark gray polo
shirt. So, there you go. Ask any
question to any video. All right, and
last, if you want to watch videos in any
language, but you don't want subtitles,
you just want instant translation, this
is for you. So, we're using the HeyGen
video translate feature in Replicate.
So, we have this original video,
Leonardo DiCaprio accepting his Oscar
award, I believe.
>> Uh The Revenant was a product of the
tireless efforts of an unbelievable cast
and crew. Okay, that's cool. But, what
if you want it in another language? Here
that is.
And not only is his voice actually
translated to another language, but the
actual mouth movement is synced with
that new language. It is so impressive.
So, obviously for me, it allows me to
take my videos and translate them into
many languages with very little
additional work. But, if you want to
take a movie or something else, and you
want to translate it into a different
language just to enjoy and watch in your
native language or a new language, you
can do that as well. So, those are all
the use cases for today. If you enjoyed
this video, please consider giving a
like and subscribe, and I'll see you in
the next one.