AI just changed forever. And if you're
still using ChatGPT like a fancy Google
search, you're about to get left behind.
Most people are still chatting with AI,
asking it questions, getting answers,
maybe writing some emails. But the
people who are going to win the next
decade, they're not chatting with AI
anymore. They're putting AI to work. AI
agents that actually do things, build
things, complete entire projects while
the human sleeps. I build AI companies
and tools every day. And let me tell
you, this might be the most important
technology shift we've ever seen. Bigger
than ChatGPT when it came out, bigger
than the internet. So, today I'm going
to show you what this new AI actually is
and why it's different, how to think
about it differently so you actually use
it right, the perfect [music] tool for
your scenario, not just some hyped-up
crap. And if you stick around to the
end, I'll walk you through your first
fully agentic workflow step-by-step.
So, let's start by understanding what it
is in the first place. Point one, what
is agentic AI?
There's three levels of AI. The first
level that we all get introduced to was
chat. ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini. I talk to
it, I give it context, it replies. It's
gotten better over time. The second
level is automation. And that's when we
start taking the AI and its ability to
classify and respond, create workflows
that run automatically. And these are
tools like make.com or Zapier or n8n for
the more advanced people. Level three is
agent. This is where the AI thinks,
plans, reasons, and executes entire
tasks on its own. It opens browsers, it
writes code, it creates files, it does
research. It doesn't need your
hand-holding. Most people are at level
one, maybe level two. But the right
people are moving to level three, and
the best part, you don't have to go to
level two to get to level three because
it'll do it for you. Point number two,
the new mindset you need. Here's the
biggest mistake that people are making
with AI right now. Truth is they're
barely using it. At best, they might be
using it as a thought partner when it
can actually build for you. This mindset
shift that I see that I encourage people
to consider, which is you are the
director, not the doer. You need to be
designing, not the task maker. And
people think, "Well, if I don't do it,
who's going to do it?" AI will do it.
Your job is to give direction, to review
the work, to course correct, not to do
the work yourself, which sounds crazy.
It's called reverse prompting.
Essentially, you start with the outcome.
What is the goal? And then you let AI
build the plan to accomplish the goal.
If you're influencing it, then you're
telling it what to do, and I'm telling
you it knows better than you. So, if you
haven't heard, IBM rolled out AI agents
for their 270,000
employees. It was a $4.5 billion
in productivity gains. Managers now
complete tasks like managing their team
and figuring out who needs a promotion
75% faster. That's not because AI is
smarter than them, it's because they
stopped doing and started directing. So,
how do you actually become a good AI
director? There's only three things you
need to do. The first thing is you have
to have a clear outcome. You need to
know what's the problem to solve. Before
it gets going, because it can do a lot
of things, you got to ask yourself,
"What is that result? What is that
outcome you want it to do?" The second
thing is we want to give it clear
instructions. I think about what is an
example of an output. If I'm going to
ask it to do a task, can I give it a
format? Can I give it the requirements?
Can I give it the template? The more
specific you can be, the better it's
going to work for you. And three,
clarify the results. I want you to treat
it like an intern. Give it feedback,
tell it to save the feedback, and it
will remember. Cuz as we build this
automation, this agentic workflow, it'll
be able to do it on its own. If you do
those three things, the AI stops giving
you generic garbage and starts giving
you exactly what you need. And notice
how at none of those steps we actually
tell it how to do the work. We begin
with the end in mind. It's its job to
figure out how to get there. The CEO of
Notion, which is the one of the top
productivity tools out there, he calls
it the manager of infinite minds. When
you have this army of infinite minds out
there accomplishing, researching,
feeding back to each other, and then you
can sit in your cockpit and being the
director, the future's going to look
completely different than how you got to
this point in your life. And again, I'm
going to show you exactly how to do this
and it's super simple towards the end of
this video. If you're a business owner
and you're trying to scale past seven
figures and you're kind of struggling
figuring out ways to actually integrate
AI into your business, I created my AI
implementation workbook for a lot of my
friends because I wanted to walk them
through how we integrate AI into every
department in my company step-by-step.
So, if you want a free copy, just find
me on Instagram at Dan Martell and DM me
the words AI business and I'll send it
right over. There's a bunch of AI agent
tools out there and they can confuse
you. So, I'm going to tell you which one
is right for you. Point number three,
which tool is the right tool?
If you ask AI to tell you what tools you
can use to create agentic systems, it'll
give you a bunch of different tools cuz
there's a bunch and they're coming out
every week. And every tool is great for
one specific thing. So, you could go use
them all, but that would mean you'd be a
master of none. What I'm going to
recommend is you go deep on one. Become
an expert in that. I'm going to give you
the answer to which one is right for you
based on who you are, but once you know
that, I want you to go all in. So,
here's how we pick the right tool. If
you're a business owner who needs
research, content, and general tasks
done, use Manas AI because it is the
best all around agent for getting real
work done at the filming of this video.
If you're a creative who writes,
designs, or works with ideas, use Claude
Co-work. They call it Co-work because it
actually runs on your computer. It can
manage your files, it can clean up
folders, it can open up tabs on your
browser, and essentially can accomplish
complete projects for you without you
involved. Now, if you're a developer or
someone who writes code, use Claude
code. It can fix bugs, it can add test
files, it can do work in parallel to
your code base while you focus on other
harder problems or talk to customers or
test what it's built. It is the tool
that all the developers at the other AI
companies use to build that AI. It's
kind of wild. And if you want a
completely automated, full personal
assistant that runs on your computer and
you're a little nerdy, use Open Claw.
The reason why is it runs like a person.
It will understand who you are and it
has memory. I think it gives you a
glimpse of what the future will look
like at scale. But it is a little
technical to set up and truthfully
risky. [music] So, be careful. I saw an
example where the bot bought a $3,000
course for itself so it could be a
better agent with no permission. The
point is just pick one. Don't try to
learn them all right now. I know you're
excited and you're like, "Oh my gosh,
this is the future." But the more you
use the one, the more you ask it to
teach you how to use more features, the
better you'll get at directing AI, which
is the skill we need to develop. Let me
actually show you exactly how you can
use AI agents cuz I'm going to go
through a real task with Manis right
now. I'm going to make it easy for you
to understand so you can follow along
and see exactly how this works. Point
number four, Manis in action.
So, for example, if I'm the founder of a
digital marketing agency and I want to
do some research on my competitor so I
can see what they're doing and figure
out if I got to change my pricing or my
offer, I can get Manis to do that. So,
just go to Manis and type something like
this. Research the top three niches
digital agency in Canada finding their
pricing, main features, and what they're
doing well. Then create a simple
one-page website that summarizes the
findings. So, notice it's doing the
research. It's finding those three
companies. It's building a task list so
they can follow. It's It's writing the
code of the new website for the output.
It's doing it and I'm not touching the
keyboard. [music] And I didn't give it
any expert detailed instructions. Even
somebody that doesn't know a whole lot
about anything could have wrote what I
wrote and they would have got an expert
level output. Most people would have
took a week plus and they probably
wouldn't know how to code this and they
would have confused it. This did it
automatically in less than 10 minutes.
And my favorite part is within Manifold,
I can now iterate because, you know,
there's some things that are missing or
maybe I want some changes. So, I'm going
to tell it, "Now add a section to each
one that includes client testimonials."
Enter. Watch. It's going. It's literally
updating itself. And just like that, I
now have client testimonials that were
pulled from each of those companies, did
the research and it updated the website
in minutes. So, now I'm going to ask it
to send it to Sam Gadget, who's my
creative director, in Slack and ask him
to provide feedback. And then also email
that link with the details of what I did
in the research to Joel Harrison. Now I
go check Slack. It posted it as me and
it has a little icon that says Manifold,
so they know that it was from Manifold.
I can now [music] get feedback from my
team and apply it to that website. So, I
can tell it to monitor that Slack thread
and see if there's a reply every 15
minutes, every hour, whatever I want to
tell Manifold. And if it gets feedback,
it's going to either prompt me or I can
just say take any feedback and
automatically apply it and it'll apply
it to the website. It did all of that.
It did the research. It created the
website. It shared it with my team. It
took their feedback. It updated it. It
took my feedback, updated it all within
minutes. And what's cool is you can kick
off a bunch of those in parallel and
they'll all run while you're doing
something else. So, now you got to
understand, I went from an idea to a
prompt to sending it out to people I
work with, to getting the feedback, to
updating the output. And I can even say
now email or post on Slack to everybody
that's been involved letting them know
the changes made. I do this all the
time. It's amazeballs. It's crazy. The
fact that without knowing how to create
automation, you just created automation.
My favorite part is mobile. So, on my
phone, I can sit there and I can talk to
it and I can tell it what I want to do.
Spins up, runs it, connects the stuff,
pulls everything. Now, here's a pro tip.
I challenge you to stay in the tool.
See, we've been taught because of the
chat level that we need to chat and it
gives us a response and we copy the
response and then we go do something
with it. Post it in Slack, send an
email, create a Google Doc. Don't do it.
I dare you not to do it. You'll be
tempted to take action. Don't. That way
you get better and the AI gets better
because it's doing more for you and it's
learning how you like to work. So, now
that you've seen how it works, this is
the question. What are you going to do
about it? What are you going to change?
AI is the opportunity you've been
waiting for. You've been asking, like,
why wasn't I early to the internet? Oh
my gosh, I wish I would have came out
with that mobile app idea. This is now.
In the next 5 years is the AI gold rush
and there will be more millionaires
created in the next 5 years than the
history of the internet, just like the
dot com boom. This is bigger. This isn't
about being an AI expert. The cool part
is AI is the AI expert. It's about being
willing to learn. It's about telling
yourself, I need to just sit down and do
the work. And I know I'm not technical
and I know this still confuses me, but
I'm willing to read, I'm willing to
research, and I'm willing to empower the
tool to help me in my life. And the best
part is as you just saw how easy it was
to do something that seems complicated
and it did it in minutes. Stop
pretending not to know. I know it's
overwhelming, but if you just take
action, I promise you it will click. So,
here's what I want you to do right now.
Pick one tool based on what I said
earlier. Number two, pick one task that
you're doing every week that takes you a
lot of time. Three, have the agent do it
for you today. Sit down with it, play
with it. If you do that, you will will
to change the mindset and the belief and
understand how easy this is. And you
will get ahead of 99.9% of everybody
else using AI to do chat. And remember,
if you want my free copy of my AI
implementation playbook that we use in
all my companies, just DM me the word AI
business on Instagram and I'll send it
right over. And if you want to learn
what are the best AI tools to make money
in 2026, click here and I'll see you on
the other side.