I rank the best and worst AI tools to
get rich in 2026. Some of these tools
can 10x your business and income, while
others are just a massive [music] waste
of time. And I've personally tested more
than 500 AI tools at my company, Martell
Ventures, because we're an AI incubator,
and we launch a new company every single
[music] month. So, I have to test them
and know if they're going to create
value. And I'm going to rank the most
popular AI tools that everybody's heard
about that can actually make you money
and build wealth in 2026. We got the S
tier, that's non-negotiable for the
future. The A tier, which is widespread
but not universally known. B tier, which
is niche but valuable. The C tier might
work in the rare cases, but most people
won't see consistent ROI. And then
finally, the F [music] tier, essentially
don't bother. It might be flashy,
but honestly, there's no real value.
Number one is MidJourney. Essentially,
it allows you to take prompts and
generate images. It was like one of
those early apps that when Chad GPD came
out, people were using it because it
essentially used the same prompt
structure [music] to create images. Can
you make money? Yeah. A lot of people
use Midjourney and act as a service to
create brand packages or website designs
or any visual Photoshop type thing. Easy
to use, super simple. I just don't think
long term it'll be there. Where do I
think this one sits? It is kind of
niche.
>> [music]
>> You can do a lot of this in other tools.
I'm going to put it in B. Number two is
Runway ML. Essentially, this is an AI
powered video generating tool. You can
use it to like create marketing
collateral, walkthroughs. Think of any
video generation. So, you can get paid
to do it for other businesses. You can
also use it in your business to [music]
create marketing collateral. I think the
easy use, it's not there. It's a lot
harder to use than most of these tools.
But, I think like long-term, it's pretty
good. I would probably put it in a B.
Every business, no. Video creators for
sure, but it's less for like everyday
use. I'm going to put runway in front of
Midjourney because video is more
interesting to me than photos. Number
three, 11 Labs. Now, they're kind of OG
AI. They've been around for a while.
Produces uber realistic AI voices. We
use it all the time for this very
specific use case where if I
mispronounce a word like regularlessly,
yes, make fun of me, I don't care. Then
the team can actually use it to create
what's called pickups rigorously. So
yes, this is Dan. Ouch, I'm pinching
myself, not AI. But sometimes the voice
has to be AI because it saves me time
from having come back into [music] the
studio. If you're in a business that
generates a lot of creative that has
voiceovers,
super [music] powerful, huge opportunity
to make a ton of money, do it for
yourself as a marketing thing, easy to
use. And then also like [music] the
future of voice, I think they will be
potentially the winner in that category
[music] cuz it's nuance and you think
it's easy, but it's not. So, I'm going
to give it a high score. I'm actually
going to put [music] this into A. It's
fantastic for content creators. It's not
essential for every business, but it's
like right on the edge. Before I go any
further, I know that most entrepreneurs
are literally struggling trying to
figure out what are the tools, how do I
use them, how do I actually use them to
grow my business. So that's why I built
the AI company OS. Essentially, it's the
exact system my team and I use to
automate and scale every department
across a $und00 million portfolio. So if
you want a copy of that, just click the
link or scan the QR code and I'll get
you a [music] copy for free. That's my
gift to you. Number four is Hey Jen.
Another tool that's been around since
the beginning. It allows you to create
AI avatar videos from just [music] text
and it's kind of leading the front.
There's a few other ones that are like
coming up and they still are in private
beta. But hey genen is really cool and a
lot of people are using it for creating
training videos, product explainers,
marketing videos. Essentially, it's a
way for you to scale [music] your
content output. Moneym. If you can
convince a business owner to actually
use the tool, they'll pay you to set it
up. The easy use is high. So, that's
good. I'd give it like an 8 out of 10.
And then I would say the future of it
being that platform is pretty high.
Although there's a lot of other tools
come in. It's a fun tool but limited use
depending on your business. So I'm going
to give it a B right [music] next to
Runway cuz Runway actually has a better
product suite. It's not as good as
Runway, better than Midjourney. Number
five, gamma.app.
If you've never heard of it, let me tell
you about it cuz I use it every week.
Essentially, it's like having a
full-time designer on your team to
generate reports and proposals and
outputs. And it's awesome. I think the
money-making is there. I just think that
most people can use this tool, so
they'll just do it themselves. But I
have friends that use it to create pitch
decks for clients, proposals for
clients, essentially visualize output so
that the team doesn't have to like stop
and get distracted. Easy to use, high.
It's like a 9 out of 10. Is it going to
be relevant for the future? They seem to
be the category winner in the space. So,
I'm going to give them a good score
there. This one's going to be
controversial. I'm going to go S tier. I
think every business could use it. I
think they should make everything they
produce as an output prettier. I think
visuals are good. I think teams
communicate better. Number six, it's
Leonardo.ai.
Essentially generates concept art and
branded visuals. So, if you ever had the
idea of like, oh, I want to start my own
like Nike, you could do this really
easily. The problem is when you generate
branded material, you'll have sometimes
hallucination. So, the consistency is
not there. So, it's known for that. The
styles, the flexibility, it makes it
ideal for designers. Designers love this
tool. But, can you make money with this?
For most people, you kind of need to be
a designer. So, I'm going to give you a
low score there. Is it easy to use? Yep,
relatively easy. Is it going to be
relevant for the future? Again, it's
competitive. It has a strong niche
appeal. Like, designers do love it, but
limited to broad use. So, I'm going to
put it in B. It's very niche, but
valuable. And I'm going to put it third
in the list. Number seven, Zapier. This
one is really [music] cool. It's a tool
that helps you automate your business
processes. They've been around forever,
way before AI. I've been using it for, I
think, close to a decade now. 6,000
[music] apps to automate your workflow.
The cool part is no code required. I
know hundreds of agencies that are using
Zapier to make a ton of money, automate
business processes. It's relatively
easy. When you get into more
sophisticated stuff, it's there. And
they've been around for so long. They
have the enterprise space and they've
added the tools and they were quick to
adopt AI. I'm giving this S tier. This
one is one that's foundation to any
modern business. I'm going to put it
above Gamma. Now, we've got a
competitor, Gum Loop. I love it because
I am a sucker for good user experience.
It's a visual AI workflow builder. So,
same thing, automate workflows. It's
visual, a lot more visual than Zapier.
We built a whole bunch of financial
automation using Gum Loop, recruiting
processes using Gum Loop. So, I'm I'm a
fan. It's a solid option. I think you
can make money with this. It's a lot
higher on ease of use even though it's
newer in a smaller community, but it's
it's ah making a bet long term. I just
don't think you need it if you've got
Zapier. So, I'm going to put it in the A
tier. We're going to put it in front of
11 Labs. You got to automate your
business. Number nine is N8N. What I
love about it, it's open source. I'm a
big fan of open source. Open source
essentially means that the code base is
available for anybody to look at it. So,
you don't have to worry if the company's
doing things right because you can
actually audit the code. You don't have
to pay for licenses. It's essentially
[music] free if you can set up your own
servers. It's a little best suited for
like developers. You can make money
because it's automation. A lot a lot of
people use it for more complicated
workflows, but the learning curve is a
lot harder. So, it's got a low score
there. And I think it's going to be
relevant cuz it is the open-source
[music]
tool of choice right now amongst
technical people. So, I'm going to give
it a
You need a tool for workflow, but you
don't need that tool. So, I'm going to
put it on the end of an A. Number 10,
your.com. Essentially, anything voice
and phone call, it can automate and act
as like a revenue tool for you. We use
it for outbound qualifying. We use it
for inbound responses. Full disclosure,
this is one of my portfolio companies at
Martell Ventures, but it's a tool that
not only do we use in all my portfolios,
but also my brother uses it, my friends
use it. It is a really cool tool. Big
fan. Obviously, I'm a little biased, but
let me tell you why I think it's cool.
Number one, a lot of people are using
Atlas to get paid to set this up for
companies so you can make money really
quick. The learning curve is not that
high. I mean, you just need to
understand basic prompt engineering. And
then the future of voice and AI. I think
every interface in the future will go
away and it'll all be voice. You're
probably doing this right now with AI.
You're talking to it a lot. If you look
inside of some of the top tech
companies, they have these like little
mics with a long pole and a little mic
and everybody's whisper prompting their
prompts on their computer. It's really
interesting. The world's probably going
to go there. And your list.com is the
platform right now, I think, to do that.
You should just try it out. Go check out
youratlas.com and just like have it call
you. It's really cool. as a business
tool. I just don't see you doing things
that don't involve calls. I know it
sounds self- serving, so I don't want
you to take it the wrong way, but I'm
going to put it at the top. [music] It's
an S at the end of S. Number 11,
Fixer.ai. Fixer AI is essentially an
email AI tool. So, it'll help you like
categorize your email, get sorted. It's
a tool to help you be more productive in
your inbox. Clever idea. Super cool. Can
you make money with it? It'll save you
time. I don't think you can like get
paid from other people to set it up.
Learning how to use it is always a
little bit difficult with kind of
workflows because you probably have a
certain way you like to use your inbox.
So, I'm going to put it in C. I think
it's cool. I've mentioned it before, but
it's not a must considering the other
tools. Number 12 is Notion AI. Notion is
a project management workspace for
businesses. The AI specific is their
assistant. It's built into Notion that
helps you with writing and taking notes
and organizational. So that's what I'm
essentially assessing. Cool part is it
integrates naturally with your existing
workspace within notion. So if you use
notion, thumbs up. Money making and save
you time. It's cool. It's still not
where I need it to be. And I don't think
anybody's going to pay you just for the
AI part. They might pay you to set up
notion for them. Ease to use, super
easy. Love the interface integrated.
Long-term, is this the tool? Well, if
you didn't see that OpenAI launched
company knowledge, which is this new
product that is going to try to be the
search or the brain on top of your
business knowledge, that's where I think
like a notion AI might lose some ground.
I'm going to put it C. It's cool. I just
think it's tough to justify, but I am
going to put it in front of fixer. I
think check out the notion AI. It
actually can do some cool stuff,
specifically if you're a notion company.
Number 13, buddyro.ai. Think of it this
way. If you had a knowledge base or a
brain, an AI brain that was specifically
trained on just your company's
information and then your clients
instead of calling you, they could call
Buddy Pro or instead of your team asking
you, they could ask Buddy Pro. That's
what it does. Do I think it'll save you
money? Hell yeah. Think about all those
support emails, [music] right? The
support emails only work if they've been
properly trained. So now all of a
sudden, Buddy Pro can power the
response. I think every business can use
it. I think it'll save you a lot of
money and I think the way they built it
technically because I know the founders
it's a really smart way to solve this
problem long term that's completely
different than just like a custom GPT.
I'll rank it in tier A but at the end
number 14 granola.ai the category of
recording calls is big. Okay, you see
them all the time. You get on a Zoom
call and you got the thing recording and
you're like whose Firefly is this? I
just don't let them into my meetings.
I'll tell you why Granola is cooler.
Granola actually records on your end,
meaning that people that are on the call
don't know that you're recording. It's
not meant to be sneaky. It's meant for
you to take notes so that you have clear
understanding of what's been said,
recaps and action items and all that
stuff. And it does it automagically. And
the cool part is it works across all the
major video platforms. Do I think it'll
save you money? If you're not the kind
of person that writes things down, yes.
If you don't have somebody in your
meetings, yes. Easy for you to use? Yep.
Literally click, click, install, it
starts working. Is it going to be the
one that's going to win the future?
Amongst all my smart technical AI
people, it's their favorite and that's
usually a good sign. [music] So, I'm
gonna make it mandatory. I think it's S.
I think everybody should use Granola. I
think it's in front of your atlas for
sure. And honestly, even in front of
Gamma. If you don't use it, check it
out. I think you'll be happy you do.
Number 15, we got Chat GPT. The big dog,
the one that started it all, okay, 2 and
a half years ago. Did you know close to
700 million people use CHBT every week
is bananas. Conversational [snorts]
AI for writing, coding, automation. It
does more than most people realize.
Obviously, it's going to make you a ton
of money. It's incredibly easy to use.
Literally, if you want to learn how to
use AI, ask AI. It'll tell you. Wild, I
know. They've raised so much money that
they're at the point where they're too
big to fail. So, [music] where do I put
GPT? At the very, very, very front. It's
dominating the market. It's number one
s. Use it. If you're not using it, learn
it. I created a whole master class video
on Chad GBT. You can search for that.
It'll teach you how to become next
level. It's number one. Number 16,
Claude, which is the AI by Enthropic. I
use all the AIs and I'm going to rank
them today, but Claude's one
specifically for writing and for code.
Yes, GPT5 is getting better, but still
on certain types of projects, it's still
winning there. Will it make you money?
less than Chad GBT because I think it's
a use case if you're not using as much.
Very easy to use. Are they going to be
around long term? Yeah, they're not
going anywhere. They'll probably get
bought by somebody. I'm going to put it
in front of Zapier. Number 17, we've got
Perplexity.ai.
This is like the battle of the language
models. Perplexity was the first search
engine that was powered by AI. Now it's
kind of [music] like everywhere. GPT
launched Atlas, their own browser.
Google's got the AI answers integrated
into search results, but Perplexity was
the first one. And what's unique [music]
is that feedback is verified sources,
which is cool because sometimes you have
hallucination with the other language
models. In many ways, it's kind of a
novelty. I'm not going to put it even
after granola. We're going to go zap
your granola perplexity. Some of you
guys are going to be like, "Oh, I
disagree." That's cool. My ranking,
that's where I'm going to put it. Number
18, Gemini. Google. What Google is doing
that it's got an advantage over is that
it integrates all of its existing tools.
So, here's the thing is it would go
ahead of everybody if it was not
integrated, but if you're not a Google
ecosystem customer, then I'm going to
put it third behind claude. Number 19,
Notebook LM. Essentially, it's Google's
AI for analyzing and summarizing files,
information, research. There's one use
case that I think most people don't know
about where you can feed it to like
YouTube videos and actually tell it to
like talk to you through the videos, but
it generates like a narrative back and
forth. [music] It's like creating your
own podcast. And I think it's really
tailored for like researchers, writers,
and students. So, it's not an every
company. I wouldn't even say it's an A.
It's kind of a niche thing. If you want
to get nerdy on this stuff, it's in the
C. It's interesting, but it's not
necessarily needed. Number 20 is Grock.
[music] Elon buys X, takes the AI team,
spins it out as X AI, brands it as
Grock, raises a bunch of money, built
this crazy data center. The reason why
it's on this list is because I use
[music] it more and more. It keeps
getting better week over week. I
actually use Gro Heavy, which is the
$300 a month plan. It is the best one
for accuracy, [music] depth of research
that I found. I'm just looking longterm.
I'm thinking it's way better than
Gemini. I think he's going to beat
Claude and I think it's going to be
number two behind open eyes chat GBT.
That's where I'm putting it. I see the
updates. I see the focus. The first
principles [music] approach. It's one
I'm going to bet on. Number 21, Revio.
If you do any kind of selling over chat,
I'm talking support emails, LinkedIn,
Instagram, Facebook, then having an AI
sales assistant is key. Revio is one of
our portfolio company inside of Martell
Ventures. We use it all the time. I use
it. My wife uses it. Can it make you
money? Ton of money. Most people don't
know that if you talk to your followers
on social media, those are called leads.
You make money with leads. Is it going
to be relevant long-term? I think so.
I'm going to put it in C. So, it's tough
to justify, but here's the deal. If you
use Instagram for business, it's a must.
Okay. So, it's niche. Number 22.
Lovable. Now, this is one of my
favorites. Lovable has been around for a
while. It helps people that are not
technical build apps. All my friends
that come to me with they're like, "I've
got a tech idea, Dan." I say, "Just go
play with Lovable." The cool part is you
can use ChatgBT to write the prompt to
then insert it into Lovable so that it
can create the app the way you want. I
think the future of business is these
disposable apps that help run
departments. Right now, we use [music]
spreadsheets. In the future will be
apps. Lovable is that platform. I know
people that make a lot of money selling
Lovable apps to businesses and charge
$10,000, $15,000 for these apps that AI
generated. And I know a lot of
businesses that are using it for that
disposable idea to save time to build
automation. You need to know how to
prompt, so it's not as easy to use, but
they're wellunded. I think they'll be
around for a while. The future's going
there, but there's other tools that
everybody should be using before then in
your business. So, I'm going to put it
at the end of the row B. Number 23 is
Cursor AI. If you're a technical person,
Cursor is crazy cool. It's an AI coding
assistant. It's an IDE, an integrated
development environment for you to write
code. It's super technical, super nerdy.
I'm going to put it at the end of C.
It's really cool. It's just super niche.
Number 24, Apple Intelligence. I love
that Apple branded AI. Apple
intelligence. Like, if you saw their
ads, they were like, "Apple
intelligence." AI for the rest of us. If
you didn't know this, it sucks. It has
always sucked. Nobody uses it. People
that tried it go back to the other AI
tools. They focus on privacy, which is
kind of a cornerstone to Apple's brand.
The problem is this is not good. Crazy.
I'm doing this cuz it's an Apple
product. Apple hasn't innovated in a
while. So, I'm putting it into F. Run
away. Until they launch something way
better. Don't use it. Use any of the
other tools. So, we've ranked all these
tools. And I can understand it might
feel super overwhelming. Here's what I
want to encourage you to do now. Take
the one that you were like, "Oh, that's
interesting. I could see how I would use
that in my business." And then just
spend the next two weeks a installing
it. like right now, go install it, then
set it up, and then just like force
yourself to build the new habit to use
it. Cuz a lot of technology, it's not
can it do the thing, it's do you
remember to use it. Go do a project and
start trying to habit stack. [music]
Connect the using of that new AI tool to
another habit in your workday so that it
becomes second nature. That's how we
start the process of using these tools
to make you a lot more money and getting
a lot more time back. And again, if you
haven't grabbed the internal AI company
operating system doc that my team uses
with all of our AI prompts that you can
use by clicking the link below, just do
that. That is my gift to you at no cost.
Now, if you want to learn what are the
best businesses to start, click here and
I'll see you on the other
