You may not take interest in politics,
but politics will take interest in you.
So the same applies to AI many times
over.
>> Ilas Sutskver, the man behind the
invention of open AI, gave a pretty
strong speech at the University of
Toronto. He expressed great concerns
about the upcoming AI, which might
disrupt our entire world. Watch this.
>> The reason it's not going to be the most
conventional convocation speech is
because there is something a little
different going on right now.
You all leave, we all leave in the most
unusual time ever. And this is something
that people might say often, but I think
it's actually true this time. And the
reason it's true this time is because of
AI, right? Obviously, I mean, from what
I hear,
the AI of today has already changed what
it means to be a student by a pretty
considerable degree.
That's
I uh especially I that's what I I sense
and I think it's true. But of course the
impact of AI goes beyond that.
What happens to the kind of work we do?
Well, it's starting to change a little
bit in some unknown and unpredictable
ways.
And
some some some work may feel it sooner.
Some work might feel it later. With
today's AI, you can go on on uh on
Twitter and you can look at what AI can
do and what people say and you might
feel a little bit of that. You wonder,
hey, which skills are useful? Which ones
will be less useful? So, you got these
questions going on. And so, you can say
that the current level of challenge is
how will it affect
work and our careers.
But the thing the real challenge with AI
is that is really unprecedented and
really extreme and it's going to be very
different in the future compared to the
way it is today. Like you know we've all
seen AI, we've all spoken to a computer
and a computer has spoken back to us
which is a new thing. Computers would
not do this in the past but now they do.
So you speak to a computer and it
understands you and it speaks back to
you and it also does it in voice and it
writes some code. It's it's pretty
crazy, but there are so many things it
cannot do as well and it's so deficient.
So, you can say it still needs to catch
up on a lot of things, but
it's evocative.
It's good enough that you can ask
yourself, you could imagine, okay, fine,
in some number of years, some people say
it's in three, some people say it's in
five, 10. Numbers are being thrown
around. It's a bit hard to predict the
future, but
slowly but surely or maybe not so
slowly, AI will keep getting better. And
the day will come when AI will do all of
our all the things that we can do. Not
just some of them, but all of them.
Anything which I can learn, anything
which any any one of you can learn, the
AI could do as well. How do we know
this? By the way, how can I be so sure?
How can I be so sure of that? The reason
is
that all of us have a brain and the
brain is a biological computer.
That's why we have a brain. The brain is
a biological computer. So why can't a
digital computer, a digital brain do the
same things? This is the one sentence
summary for why AI will be able to do
all those things because we have a brain
and a brain is a biological computer.
And so you can start asking yourselves
what's going to happen. What's going to
happen when computers can do all of our
jobs? Right? Those are really big
questions. Those are dramatic questions.
And right now, like you start thinking
about it a little bit, you go, gosh,
that's a little intense. But it's
actually only part of the intensity
because what's going to happen?
What what will we the collective V want
to use these AIs for? Do more work, grow
the economy, do R&D, do AI research. So
then the rate of progress will become
really extremely fast for some time at
least. These are such extreme things.
These are such unimaginable things. So
right now I'm trying to pull you into
that a little bit into this headsp space
of this really extreme and radical
future that the AI creates. But it's
also very difficult to imagine. It's
very very difficult to imagine. It's
very difficult to internalize and to
really believe on an emotional level.
Even I struggle with it. And yet the
logic seems to dictate that this very
likely should happen.
So
what does one do in such a world? You
know there is a quote which is like this
uh
uh which goes like this. It says you may
not take interest in politics but
politics will take interest in you.
So the same applies to AI many times
over. And in particular, I think that by
simply using AI and looking at what the
best AI of today can do, you get an
intuition. You get an intuition. And as
AI continues to improve in one year, in
two years, in three years, the intuition
will become stronger. And a lot of the
things that you're talking about now,
they will become much more real. they'll
become less imaginary. In the end of the
day, no amount of essays and and
explanations can
can compete with what we see with our
own senses, with our own two eyes. And
especially with AI, the very smart,
super intelligent AI in the future,
there will be very profound issues about
making sure that they are they say what
they say and not pretend to be something
else. And I'm really condensing a lot
into a small amount of information here
in time here. But overall, by simply
looking at what AI can do, not ignoring
it when the time comes, that will
generate the energy that's required to
overcome the huge challenge that AI will
pose. And the challenge that AI poses in
some sense is the greatest challenge of
humanity ever. and
overcoming it will also have the will
also bring the greatest reward
and in some sense whether you like it or
not your life is going to be affected by
AI to a great extent and so looking at
it paying attention and then generating
the energy to solve the problems that
will come up that's going to be the main
thing
>> so that was Ilia's view but to
understand the full debate I want you to
watch this interview clip of Eric
Schmidt where he talks about a much
broader impact of AI on human lives in
the coming years. Watch this.
>> Okay. So, we believe as an industry that
in the next one year, the vast majority
of programmers will be replaced by AI
programmers.
We also believe that within one year,
you will have graduate level
mathematicians that are at the tippy top
of graduate math programs. There's lots
of reasons to think this is going to
happen. This is the consensus. You go,
okay, well, that's pretty interesting.
Now, I can't do that kind of math. Very
few people can do that math. How can the
computer do that math better than
anybody else? To some degree, it's
because math has a simpler language than
human language. So, the way these
algorithms actually work is they're
doing essentially word prediction. So,
you take you take a a sentence, you take
a word out, and then it learns how to
put the correct word back in. This is
called the loss function, and it's
optimized to do that at a scale that's
unimaginable to us as humans.
So you do the same thing for math, but
there you use a conjecture and then a
proof format through a protocol called
lean. In programming, it's pretty
simple. You just keep writing code until
you pass the programming test.
So strangely, the first question I
always ask programmers is what language
do you program in? And the correct
answer is it doesn't matter because
you're trying to design for an outcome.
You don't care what code is generated by
the computer. This is a whole new world.
Okay. So that's one year. Okay, what
happens in two years? Well, I've just
told you about reasoning and I've told
you about programming and I've told you
about math. Programming plus math are
the basis of sort of our whole digital
world. So, the evidence and the claims
from the research groups in OpenAI and
and anthropic and so forth is that
they're now somewhere around 10 or 20%
of the code that they're developing in
their research programs is being
generated by the computer.
That's called recursive self-improvement
is the technical term. So what happens
when this thing starts to scale? Well, a
lot.
One way to say this is that within three
to five years, we'll have what is called
general intelligence, AGI, which can be
defined as a system that is as smart as
the smartest mathematician, physicist,
you know, artist, writer, thinker,
politician, maybe not in the same level.
Um, but you get the idea. Uh, just the
creative industries and so forth. But
imagine that in one computer. Okay.
Well, that's pretty interesting. I call
this, by the way, the San Francisco
consensus because everyone who believes
this is in San Francisco. It may be the
water.
What happens when every single one of us
has the equivalent of the smartest human
on every problem in our pocket? So, it
means you have the best architect when
you have an architecture problem.
Another thing that's going on is the
development of agentic solutions and
agents are refer to systems that have
input and output in memory and they
learn. An example here is that I want to
uh buy another house. Uh I happen to
like Virginia. I grew up in Virginia. I
say find me a house in the greater MLAN
area. Look at the that's one agent. Look
at all the rules. Figure out how big a
house I can build. That's another agent.
Do the transaction to buy the land.
That's another agent. design the house
with a human architect, right? But sort
of ignore them for most of the thing,
but they have to sign it off and then I
approve it and then find the contractor,
right? Hire the contractor, pay the
bills, and at the end sue the contractor
for lack of performance.
Okay? Now, I just gave you the stupidest
possible explanation. I just described
every business process, every government
process, and every and every sort of
academic process in our nation.
>> So, it isn't just the programmers that
are going to be out of work. We're all
going to be out of work.
>> No, that's not a consequence. I'll come
to that. But, but the reason I want to I
want to make the point here is that in
the next year or two, this foundation is
being locked in and it's not we're not
going to stop it.
gets much more interesting after that
because remember the computers are now
doing self-improvement. They're learning
how to plan and they don't have to
listen to us anymore. We call that super
intelligence or ASI artificial super
intelligence. And this is the theory
that there will be computers that are
smarter than the sum of humans. The San
Francisco convent consensus is this
occurs within six years just based on
scaling. Now, in order to pull this off,
you have to have an enormous amount of
power. I was here yesterday testifying
about this, you know, and we need like I
can talk at some length about how many
gigawatts and how many nuclear power
plants and all the kind of stuff we can
talk about separately.
This path is not understood in our
society. There's no language for what
happens with the arrival of this. I
wrote a book on this with Henry
Kissinger called Genesis which you know
I recommend obviously um because I wrote
it
>> available
>> available available in your usual places
um but the important point is this is
happening faster than our human that our
society our democracy our laws will
address and there's lots of implications
that's why it's underhyped people do not
understand what happens when you have
intelligence at this level which is
largely free that's the How do we get
ready for it?
>> Well, we start by talking about it. And
by the way, on the jobs thing, everyone
assumes that automation will replace
will eliminate jobs. If you look at the
history of automation ever since the the
looms and uh in uh 300 years ago, the
jobs are changed, but more jobs are
created than destroyed. In this case,
you'd have to convince me that this time
is different. If you look in Asia where
they for whatever reason are choosing
not to have children, the Asian
reproduction rate is in the order of 1.0
or lower. So they're rapidly
disappearing. So the Asian countries are
very very quickly automating. The tools
that I'm describing will allow the few
humans that will be working very hard in
30 or 40 years. If these trends
continue, the rest of us will be
dependent on those hardworking humans.
It'll make their productivity more much
greater.
>> Now, here's another clip of Eric
Schmidt. Here he shares much deeper
concerns about upcoming AI technology.
Watch this.
>> One way to think about the AI that you
all know is think of it as language to
language. You ask a question, the answer
comes back. You ask a question, it can
even write code. Nowadays, the models
are multimodal. So, for example, you can
take a picture and say, tell me what's
in this picture.
uh technically there are APIs which
allow uh one firm to call an open AAI or
Gemini API or anthropic for etc and do
the classification of the picture and so
forth. These are all tactics that
increase the intelligence of the
underlying system. There are three
things going on right now this year. So
less than the time frame you gave are
really interesting. One is called
infinite context windows. Infinite
context men windows means that you can
keep feeding the answer back in is the
question. So it allows you to do
stepby-step planning. You know, how do I
uh how do I build a house? Well, the
first is I have to find a contractor. I
found a contractor. What do I have to
talk to them? Then I have to have an
architect. How do I find an architect?
Then I have to tell the architect what
to do and then design me the house. I'll
give it to the architect. He can
redesign it. You know, it's a series of
steps. Uh the next one are called
agents.
And agents is a generally overused term
and most people think that agents will
essentially act as memory sources. So an
agent can be understood as it's watching
something and when it sees it, it takes
an action. It does that by knowing what
to do based on what it's seen. The specs
for how agents work are completely
undefined in the industry. The dominant
companies want to have their own agents
and they don't want the agents to
interact because they want control for
obvious reasons. Many people think that
there will be an agent store that you
will download like we see with apps but
not this year. And the third one is text
to text to code. Now I don't know about
you all but I've programmed and managed
programmers for more than 40 years and
they never do what I want. So can you
imagine if the computer you said write
me a program to do this and it actually
writes the code. In our case, uh the
program would be
search through all the literature, find
out who is working on energy policy, who
has a technological background or a role
in which they have to be technologically
liberate literate. Identify them, rank
them, score them based on whatever our
goal is. Um and and then automatically
invit send them an invitation. If they
say yes, say congratulations. If they
say no, why not? and call them and with
a synthetic voice tell them that they're
idiots for not coming. That's the kind
of program I would write. Thank god I'm
not doing that. But but you see how easy
it would be to automate tasks. So that's
I think the first step. The next step is
not as clear. There are uh there's sort
of huge contest um there's a huge set of
contests going on now which are at a
scale that's unimaginable. You have the
big three in the US. Anthropic uh which
is allied with Amazon, Gemini obviously
from Google, OpenAI, Microsoft and let's
assume they all do really well. It looks
that they're doing really well. I can
talk about what their problems are but
fundamentally they're they're doing
well. You have Facebook which has chosen
open- source path for the 400 billion
model that has a lot of implications
strategically, right? Which we can
discuss. um all of these are vying for
the best reasoning, the best answers and
then the best predictive analytics, the
best image classifiers and the best
multimodal.
That technology then diffuses or the
technical term is distilled into more
specialized models. And I think that's
the action you'll see in the next one to
two years. You did not mention
artificial general intelligence. First,
for those of us who aren't necessarily
um totally up to speed on AI, what is it
and where are we?
>> There are multiple definitions of AGI,
but the it's the term has been around
for 15 years. The basic idea is what is
the point where you have the flexibility
of a human in your intelligence system.
So, one way to understand it today is
that we these are called narrow AI
approaches, although they're not
certainly not narrow. you basically
they're they're initiated by a human at
what point is the question can the
computer generate its own objective
function its own goal and how will that
emerge uh the there's what I call the
San Francisco school because they're all
in San Francisco uh which is a separate
set of issues and they all talk to each
other and they've all convinced
themselves that if within two to three
cranks of the systems the crank is about
18 months you get to AGI
And they define AGI as intelligence
greater than the sum of human
intelligence. I personally think that
that's likely but not in three years,
not in
>> what is the time frame, do you? We don't
know.