There are a lot of AI models out there.
So, in this video, I'm going to explain
each type of AI model, what they're good
for, and how to pick the right one for
your project. Now, without further ado,
let's go. The easiest way, in my
opinion, to start thinking about
different types of AI models is
understanding the relationship between
model capability, size, speed, and cost.
Let's make an analogy. Let me explain
using planes. On one end of the
spectrum, you get your fancy flagship
commercial airplanes. They're massive,
can carry a lot of people, and can go
across entire oceans and navigate across
different complex routes, but they're
also very expensive and slower because
they got a lot going on. These are also
like your flagship AI models. They are
massive and have the best capabilities,
but are also more expensive and slower.
Then on the other end of the spectrum,
you get your private jets. You have much
smaller passenger capacity, like maybe
10 people, 20 people max, and you can't
be crossing entire oceans, but they are
cheaper to operate and small and nimble
and fast. These are like your light AI
models, models that are optimized for
speed. Then, of course, in the middle of
the spectrum, you have everything else
like your Boeing 737s, the workh horses
of the industry. A good balance of
capacity, size, speed, and cost. It can
handle 80% of routes efficiently. And
chances are, if you're getting on a
plane, there's a good chance it's going
to be a Boeing 737. In the AI model
world, you also have examples of these
mid-tier AI models, the go-to models
that you will use to handle like 80% of
your queries. And finally, to round out
our amazing plane analogy, we have some
specialized planes as well, like your
search and rescue helicopters where your
cargo only transatlantic planes. Just
like with planes, you also have AI
models that are made to be specialized
in very specific things. Now, let me
give you some examples of each of these
type of models, when to be using which
one, because there's still subtle
differences between them and some demos
of what is actually like to use them.
And by the way, by the time you watch
this video, it's very possible that the
models I'm talking about here are
already going to be replaced by newer
versions. And that's okay because if you
understand the types of these different
models, you would be able to categorize
these new models in the correct category
as well. We'll still be serving the same
function, just better. All right, let's
start off with the flagship type of AI
model.
I'm going to start off with Opens GPT
5.2, their flagship model. So, going to
put some stats on screen here. I think
they're nice to know, but not super
functional. The way that I like to think
about it, more from like a functional,
practical standpoint, um, is that
OpenAI's flagship models are very
well-rounded. It can do multimodality,
it can do analysis, it can do image
generation, it can pretty much do
everything and is pretty good at
chaining together multiple actions as
well. Let me show you an example. I'm
actually going to be using Perplexity AI
to show you GPT 5.2. Perplexity is a
really great model aggregator. Like they
have a lot of different models here,
including GPT 5.2. So, you don't
actually have to pay for individual
subscriptions, which get really
expensive when you want to use different
models. In my case, I actually don't pay
for OpenAI um and Chad GPT anymore. So,
this is how I access OpenAI models
through Perplexity. So, I'm going to
turn on the thinking mode as well. This
allows the model to reason through the
steps and you usually yield better
results from this even though it will be
a little bit slower. Okay, so I'm going
to attach 500 rows of customer feedback
and I will say analyze this customer
feedback CSV. Group the complaints by
category. Draft a markdown customer
response template for the complaints and
then generate a banner for the upcoming
workshop on AI agents in Paris, France.
And here are the details. So let us do
its thing. Really showcases GPT 5.2's to
his ability of being a really good
well-rounder. Cool. So, we can see that
we have the complaints analysis summary
categorization of the complaints and
different examples of them as well. Here
is the complaint response template as a
markdown file. And here is the banner.
I'm also going to put on screen now some
examples that OpenAI's GPT 5.2 would
really excel at. Next up, also in the
flagship category is Anthropic's Claude
Opus 4.6. Here are some of its stats.
So, Opus is also a heavy hitter and it
really specializes in two things,
writing and code generation, but its
major drawback is that it doesn't have
good multimodality functionality. It
can't actually generate images directly.
It is also the most expensive and the
slowest model,
but oh my gosh, it is so good at code
especially like that's what I use it the
most for, which is amazing that you can
just use Claude Opus 4.6 six with the
thinking mode um as part of perplexity
without an additional subscription. So
I'm going to put some code here which is
for an open- source agent workflow which
I made actually in this video over here
if you want to check it out. It is able
to screen through my emails, categorize
them, draft some responses for things
and also flag emails that need
attention. So here I'm going to ask
Cloud Opus 4.6 fix to change this code
so that the user can input their desired
email um and have a simple dashboard
front end as well that showcase the
emails that are categorized so it looks
a little bit prettier and let it do its
thing and there you go. This is much
more user friendly being able to
alternate the email that you want and
you can actually see on a dashboard the
progress that the agent is making now
instead of just ugly terminal. Here are
some other examples that Claude Opus 4.6
would be particularly excellent at. Next
up is Grock. Here are some of its stats.
Gro is actually pretty special because
it's considered a flagship model. In
fact, as of right now at least, users
vote Grock as the most capable and most
preferable model,
but at the same time, it's actually also
really fast, pretty cheap, and has a
really big context window as well at 2
million. By the way, you can think about
context window as the amount of data
that you can give to Grock, whether in
the prompt or just like as data that you
wanted to analyze or go through. So at
like 2 million, you could be like
chucking in an entire book for it to
analyze and you could probably do it. So
yeah, without going into too much
technical details about why this is the
case, just know that Grock is actually
somewhat of an anomaly in a good way.
People also especially like Grock
because they find it to have the most
EQ. Like for example, if we put Grock
here and you ask it to talk about your
feelings, it's like very empathetic.
Like I've been working 80our weeks for
the past 3 months on a startup and just
got rejected by every investor we
pitched to. My co-founder wants to
pivot, but I feel like we're giving up.
I just want to talk through my feelings.
And Grog says, "It sounds incredibly
heavy to pour everything into the
startup for three straight months of
80our weeks only to face rejection from
every investor, you know, and it's like
wow." Like, it's very high EQ. It really
is. So, just to show you what I mean,
I'm going to use model council and
perplexity. This allows me to put a
single prompt and then use three up to
three different models to compare the
results for this. So here I'm going to
put GPD 5.2, Claude Opus 4.6. We don't
need to have the thinking mode. Don't
got to think here. And Grock 4.1. So
let's run these. So yeah, you can see
how fast Grock already is. It's like
already saying like, wow, so quickly
while GPD 5.2 and Claude are still
finishing up. So this sounds incredibly
heavy. Pouring everything to the starter
for three straight months of 80our weeks
only to hit a wall of rejections from
every investor. It's no wonder you're
exhausted. That's not just physical
burnout. It's the kind that seeps into
your bones where even the thought of
another day feels like climbing a
mountain with no summit in sight. And it
talks about like the terror of quitting.
It's valid to feel all of this at once.
Being definely loyal to the vision
clashing with the raw fear of failure
wrapped in sheer depletion. Yeah. So no,
it's very like empathetic. And then
let's see GPT 5.2. So GP 5.2 it sounds
like a really brutal collision. You'll
be running at unsustainable pace for
months and the moment you expect some
kind of external validation relief, you
get a wall of no. So, I mean, it's not
bad, right? Like, it tells you to it
tells you like a bunch of stuff and it
kind of like tries to tell you, oh,
here's the things that you're feeling
and it kind of like goes on like it does
address these problems, but it sort of
is making a lot of assumptions for
things and it's also like much more
rambly. So, and then there's Claude Opus
4.6. So, Claude says, "I hear you. Let
me just sit with this for a moment
because what you're describing is
genuinely one of the hardest places to
be." And yeah, it says like 3 months of
80our weeks and it lists a bunch of
these things. Here's why I think it's
really hard about where you are. Pivot
isn't quitting, but it doesn't feel that
way. When your co-founder says pivot,
you might be hearing what we build
wasn't good enough. And after 80our
weeks, that lands like a judgment on
you, not just the product. So yeah,
etc., etc. I mean, I feel like this is
pretty decent as well, but I can
definitely see why people would prefer
Grock because it's like so much more
about like emotions and compassion
without being too rambly. What do you
guys think out of these three responses?
Which one do you prefer when you talk
about your feelings? All right, I'm
going to put some other example prompts
that Grock would be particularly good
at. Next up, Gemini 3 Pro from Google.
Here are some of its stats. This is
Google's flagship model. Its performance
is pretty on par with the other flagship
models, and it also has two things going
for it. The first one is the context
window as well. It's also at 2 million
context window, so you can chuck in a
lot of stuff there. And what makes it
really stand out is its multimodality
functions. Gemini Pro really excels at
multimodality. Analyzing pictures,
analyzing videos, generating pictures,
generating videos, and it has really
good character consistency across
different generations. Let me show you
an example. So, let's say generate an
image of a professional woman named
Sarah. So, let's do that. By the way,
pretty sad. Google Studio used to allow
you to generate images for free using
Gemini Pro, but not anymore. But
luckily, we can use Perplexity cuz I do
not want to be paying for another
subscription. Cool. So here's the image
and let's see its real power when I say
now generate the same woman but in a lot
of different scenarios teaching in front
of a whiteboard with AI diagrams working
on a laptop in a coffee shop leading a
workshop with students in the background
and recording a video tutorial at her
desk. And there you go. Pretty amazing,
right? Like there's character
consistency across these pictures. Here
are some of the other prompts on screen
which will really let Gemini 3 Pro
shine. Okay, so there is one more
flagship model that I want to show you
guys that is really special because it
also belongs to an entire other category
of AI models which I have not talked
about yet.
>> All right, then keep your secrets.
>> So, I'm going to save this one for now
and continue on finishing the mid-tier
and the light tier model examples first.
Stay tuned. For now, let's go from the
flagship models and go to the opposite
side of the spectrum, the light models.
But so for these light models, they are
made to be fast, really optimized on
speed. They're smaller and a lot
cheaper, too. The trade-off, though, is
that capability-wise, it is not as good
as the flagship models. So, I'm going to
put on screen now some examples of light
models, but the one that I want to focus
on and demo for you guys is the Gemini 3
Flash. This is the current best light
model there is. It has all of the
benefits of being fast and efficient and
cheap while still retaining up to 90 to
95% capabilities of the Gemini 3 Pro
model. And that's because of a process
called knowledge distillation.
Basically, Google took the Gemini Pro
model and was able to distill that and
then package it into the Gemini Flash
model that is a lot smaller but still
retains a lot of the capabilities there.
Let me show you. Going to use the model
council again. And let's pick Gemini
Flash and Gemini Pro so you guys can see
the difference. So let's download this
really big report about global climate
highlights in 2025 and we'll put in the
prompt create an executive summary and
three key insights from this report. Now
normally you know maybe I would be fine
just waiting around for this but say I
have procrastinated and I have a meeting
in like a minute and I'm supposed to
present this report. That's when I would
use Gemini Flash. As you can see flash
is already done. Look at that. So global
climate highlight 2025 report. Here's
the executive summary for it. 2025 was
the third warmest year on record
globally with an average temperature of
blah blah blah. This year was
characterized by historically high sea
surface temperatures and it gives you
the key insights of the first 3-year
breach of 1.5° C persistent ocean warmth
independent Elnino and historic lows in
global sea ice. Okay, so Gemini Pro is
also done now. It did take significantly
longer and we see the results. So
executive summary from Gemini Pro, the
year 2025 was the third warmest year on
record. And it also says the first and
the three key insights. The first
three-year average above 1.5 degrees C,
a trio of record-breaking years of 2023,
2024, and 2025, and the persistent ocean
heat without Elino. Yeah. Okay. So, you
can see that they're relatively similar
to each other. Like Flash is a lot
faster. Flash is a little bit more
brief. While for Pro, it does go into
more depth, and it's also able to give
you like more numbers specifically,
right? And like more evidence to suggest
its claims. But yes, if I need something
that needs to be done fast, I would go
with Gemini Flash. I'm going to put on
screen now some of the other scenarios
in which you would probably want to be
using Gemini Flash. By the way, if you
feel like the AI space is very
overwhelming and you know you got to
learn things, but you're not really sure
what you should be learning, then I have
good news for you. I have made this free
resource where you can put in what it is
that you're interested in learning
about, and it will give you a 28-day
personalized road map for what it is
that you should be learning to achieve
your goals. So check it out if you like.
Here's the link and also in description.
All right. So now we've covered both of
the extremes of the spectrum. Now let's
talk about the midtier models.
So these models are actually the ones
that you would probably be using like
80% of the time because there's such a
good balance between all of these
variables. I'm going to put on screen
now some of the examples of different
midcare models from different companies.
But the one I do want to focus on to
show you guys is Clot Sonnet 4.5. Here
are its stats. I personally really like
Sonnet. It's like the less fancy version
of Opus that's a little bit more usable,
but it still has the really good like
writing style of Claude Opus and it has
really good coding skills as well, which
is what I spend a lot of my time on. My
favorite use case for Claude Sonnet is
asking it to build something from
scratch, like build an interactive web
app that can visualize lunar cycles.
Because it's building from scratch, you
don't need as much power, so you don't
need to use Opus. Sonnet is perfectly
capable of this. And there you go. Some
nice little visualizations. Pretty cool,
right? I also really love using Sonnet
for doing analyses and then building
interactive dashboards and
visualizations, too. So, I'm going to
put on screen now some other examples
that I think Claude Sonnet really excels
at. Oh, and also like a word about the
tone of Sonnet. I know a lot of people
prefer Grock's tone, but I actually
prefer Sonnet and just like Claude in
general because I feel like maybe I'm
just like not that good at expressing my
emotions. I find Grock to be almost like
too empathetic and too emotional.
while Claude models like Claude Sonnet
are more like actiondriven like here's
the solution for what you should be
doing in your specific case and I prefer
that better. But yeah, it is these
mid-tier models that are the true workh
horses that are running a lot of these
AI queries and AI agents out there.
Okay, now let's actually go back to the
flagship model that I skipped
previously. The example I would give of
this category is Kimmy 2.5. Can anybody
guess why I'm saying that this type of
flagship model? because it also
represents an entire other category of
AI models. Put in the description if you
can guess why. Okay, I'm going to tell
you now. That is because the Kimmy model
can do all of the things that the
flagship models can do, right? But it's
also open source. All of the other
models that we've talked about
previously are considered closed source,
as in you can only access them through
platforms and APIs. You don't actually
have full control and privacy. While
open source models like Kimmy for
example are ones that you can actually
download into your local computer, do
stuff with it privately and then also
host it yourself if you want. This is
really really special because of two
primary reasons. The first one is that
it is extremely cheap. Like if you
download it and just run it from your
local computer and however much you
want, it's completely free. Also privacy
reasons. So if there's certain documents
and things that you don't want to be
sending through thirdparty platforms,
you are able to control this by using an
open source model because all of that
information would be retained on your
local computer or if you decide to host
it yourself, you're still in control of
where you're hosting it and what is
happening where you're hosting it. Two
of the agents I've built using open
source models like Kimmy, which I would
never do if they were not open source,
would be an AI agent that analyzes my
financial statements and another one
that reads through my emails. In both of
these instances, I do not want to be
leaking data to third-party platforms.
And I also don't want to be paying a lot
of money having to run the model like so
many times because, for example, I get
like over a 100red emails a day. That
would cost me so much money. I'm not
going to go into way more detail about
this. Please check out this video over
here if you haven't already where I go
in depth about open source models and
how to build with them if you are
interested. Now, if you're using
Perplexity, you can also use the Kimmy
K2 model here. So you can pick this but
just know that this model is hosted by
Perplexity in the US. So you can
definitely prompt and ask it stuff
directly. Uh but just know that there is
a whole slew of other things that you
can be doing with open source models
which yes you can check out the video
over here if you're interested in
learning about. But even on this hosted
version there is a clear advantage for
Kimmy. I don't know how applicable this
is for a lot of people. It's applicable
to me because I speak Chinese. It's
really good at Chinese because it's a
Chinese model. I'm asking to draft a
contract and then use English to explain
it to show off its bilingual
capabilities. I shall put on screen now
some other examples that the Kimmy K 2.5
model and other open source models are
particularly good at. Okay, almost done.
There is one more category left which is
the specialist type models.
These are AI models that are
specifically made to be very good at
particular things like analyzing MRI
scans and healthcare data, legal stuff
or drug research. An example of a model
in this category would be the sonar
model from Proplexity. This is a
specialized model that is based on the
open- source Llama 3.37B model that is
particularly good at research and
citations. By the way, this is another
great use case for open source models.
You can turn them into more specialized
models by doing stuff like fine-tuning,
giving it a rag system and other tools
and infrastructure. There's like so
much. Not going to go into too much
detail here. That's probably another
video about how to make specialized
models. Anyways, I want to show you guys
a demo of the sonar model. Ask it a
researcher specific question of what are
the current FDA approval status,
clinical trial results, side effects,
and expert opinions on semiglutide
limpic for weight loss and non-diabetic
patients. Search and there you go. It's
able to search through so many different
resources and compile them together. Be
able to figure out what are credible
resources and what are not so credible
resources and be able to give you an
result that has very good citations. I
will put on screen now some other
examples of things that you can be
asking. sonar that will really make the
model shine. All right, that's it. We
are at the end of this video. I really
hope this was helpful for you to
understand the different types and
categories of AI models. So, in the
future when you see a model, you're able
to go like, ah, yes, like this belongs
in the flagship category or the light
category or like open source category or
a specialized category. And then you're
able to like figure out when you want to
be using those models as well and not be
overwhelmed by like the hundreds of
models that are coming out every day.
Thank you so much for watching until the
end of this video and thank you so much
Perplexity for sponsoring this video. If
you're also interested in trying a lot
of different models but don't want to
pay for a lot of subscriptions and slash
or you're like me and you live in a
region where certain models are blocked
unless you use a VPN, highly recommend
that you check out Perplexity. I will
put a link in the description if you
like and I will see you guys in the next
video or live
