If you just focus for the next 20
minutes, I'll give you a simple
three-step blueprint that will make you
a million dollars with AI from scratch.
Or you could go get distracted, go back
to listening to yet another podcast, and
wonder why you're not making progress in
your life. It's your call. I'm Dan
Martell. I became a cash millionaire at
27 years old. And since then, I've
helped thousands of founders make
millions for themselves through software
and AI. And what I've discovered is that
making a million with AI is actually
easier than it looks. All you need is a
process. So, in this video, I'm going to
show you the exact systems we use to
make millions with AI without writing a
single line of code. So, let's get into
it. Step number one, you have to target
a boring market. If you go after a
boring industry, competition is lower,
margins are often way higher, the
adoption is easier because they are
looking at you as the expert. They're
going to fight with you, and the
opportunity is massive. It's kind of
like driving a car down a hill. If the
road is busy, you can't drive very fast.
you have to pass a bunch of people.
Picking a boring market is like taking
everybody else off the road so you can
go faster. Now, if you're wondering how
do you find your boring market, just
follow these three steps. The first
step, you have to do some market
research. You have to like look at where
you want to sell to. If you want to sell
to like a certain city, you go into Chad
GBT and say, "I want to do market
research on this city and I want to find
boring businesses or boring industries
that are growing that I can use AI to
automate and do a deep research
project." And you want to tell it, find
the industries that can easily pay for
something between $5 to $10,000 to set
up AI automation. That's what you're selling. You're selling AI automation to
a boring business in your market that
can easily pay $5 to $10,000. Have it do
that research and build that list. Trade
businesses or law firms or dental or
medical like things that don't have a
lot of AI adoption. Farming could be
one. It just may not be growing, but
there could be a segment within farming
that's growing and that's what the AI
will find. So, just pick one. The second
part is do some painoint research.
Figure out within that business where is
the biggest pain point. Go read the
reviews. Go read about the industry.
Talk to the businesses. Ask them when it
comes to bottlenecks in your business
that you thought maybe AI can solve
something for me. Have them tell you
where the opportunity is. You'd be
surprised if you call up saying, "Hey,
I'm just doing some market research. I'd
love to get your advice." They'd be
like, "All right, what are your
questions?" At the end of it, they go,
"Why are you asking me these questions?"
And you say, "Well, I do AI automation
to help businesses like yours solve
these problems." They go, "Well, why
don't you just come in and do that for
me?" See how asking for advice can get
you a customer? And the third step is
then you have to do some technology
research. Meaning once you've mapped
each painpoint in regards to like maybe
it's scheduling or data entry or lead
scoring, maybe it's data monitoring. You
want to go find the AI first solutions
that exist in the market that you can
map to those problems. If you want to
help them with their data, you might
look at precision.co, which is a data
platform, or HelloFrank.ai, which helps
them with financial modeling. For
example, maybe you do the research and
realize that like some kind of boring
trade like plumbing is the market you
want to go and like serve. And then you
find out that a lot of these plumbers
are so busy doing the plumbing, they
don't have time to answer phone calls.
So missed calls is the pain point. And
they're losing jobs because nobody's
answering the call because they're busy.
You can find a tool that can answer
calls 24 hours a day like a
receptionist. And it's all automated
using a tool. So check out your.com. It
does this. It literally takes all the
inbound calls, can answer questions,
support questions, hour operations
questions, everything that you just
point to a document, and it can even
take that sales call, qualify them, sell
them into buying from you, and then get
that deal put in the calendar for your
customer. And just like that, you could
have sold a plumbing company a $5 to
$10,000 license for the software you set
up that's making them money, and they'll
pay you every month for that. You can go
to the website, test it out for
yourself, and see all the customers that
are currently doing this. This exists
today. You can make a million, no
problem. You want to get paid to
implement the AI tool for the business
owner, set it up, and manage it and get
paid every month. You don't actually
have to build the technology. That is
the number one thing that holds people
back. They think they actually have to
understand how to build this stuff. You
don't. When I look back and I'm 24 and I
just failed twice, it wasn't until I
shifted from trying to build cool things
for my friends to actually going after a
boring market, which was enterprise
software, where I finally found
traction. In my first year, I made
almost a million dollars. But finding a
boring market alone won't make you a
million. To do that, you have to master
this next step. Step number two, set
your gross margins. In business, revenue
is vanity. margin is for your sanity.
Trust me, if you make a million, but it
cost you 500,000 to make it, you didn't
make a million, you made 500,000. Most
people brag about the top line. I want
to know what you took home. I want to
know was left over. So, for example, if
it cost you a dollar to make coffee and
you sell it for $5, that means you have
a margin of $4. That's 80% margin.
That's awesome. So essentially, you want
to make sure you scale your AI business
so that your margins stay well over 80%,
even 90%. If you're doing most of the
work and the AI is doing all the heavy
lifting, then your job is to just find
customers, sell them, and set them up.
If you do that, then all the money you
make is yours to keep. And with AI, this
has never been easier. Every back office
aspect of your business can be automated
through AI. It's like my buddy who owned
a restaurant. Everybody thought he was
crushing it. super busy place, super in
demand, hard to get a reservation. I
think he was doing like 5 million in
revenue. But after the end of the year,
he came to me to talk to me because he
had some issues around his people. And
when I looked into his numbers, I found
out he was only making 50,000 take-home
for himself. Why? He didn't fight for
the margin. He let the chef add stuff to
the menu and didn't price it right, so
he wasn't making any money. He had a
bunch of food cost waste. He had a bunch
of staff turnover. He had people
stealing from him. Those are all things
that you can avoid by making sure the
margins are there to have the profit to
pay people right to incentivize them to
train them properly so that your
business actually makes you money. So
here's how you protect your margins. The
first thing is you have to set your
price floor. Essentially you want to set
the price and then give a multiple for
how much more you charge from what it
costs you. So if your delivery cost is
$2,000 in like fixed cost and you want
to make 80% then you're going to have to
multiply that by 5x. That'll get you 80%
margin. So 2,000 cost, 10,000 is your
price. If you always force yourself to
do that, it's impossible for you not to
make money. Second is you want to
productize your offer. Selling custom
implementations every time will drive
you freaking nuts. Using AI, you can
actually ask it, hey, here's my offer.
Productize it. How do I create one kind
of automation? Repeat the sales
conversation. Repeat the delivery.
Repeat the whole thing where it's set it
and forget it. Copy paste. That way
you're not doing custom builds. that
will 100% eat into your margins. The
third is you have to make sure that you
scope the outcome. There's nothing that
will kill your margins, eat into your
efforts than having a customer keep
asking for more for more for more that
you never get paid for. And that usually
happens to the nicest people out there
because they can't say no. I want you to
be very clear what the scope of that
transaction looks like. And if a
customer starts to ask for more, you
stop them. You sit them down and you
say, "I appreciate that you want that
added as well. Here's what we agreed to.
If you want, we can talk about a change
order and it's going to have a fee
associated to it, but if you're good, we
can finish this work for now. That's how
we run a great business with great
margins. The fourth and last is you have
to monitor the margins. It's too easy,
especially as your team grows, for
people to start doing things and having
costs and like paying for external
contractors and nobody pays attention to
this. So, what's cool is you can use AI
tools like HelloFrank.ai to constantly
monitor your margins and actually alert
you if they go under 80%. And if you
want to try Frank, just click the link
below in the description. So, now that
you have a high margin offer, you're
probably asking yourself like, "How do I
sell it? Sounds really easy." That's
what we need to learn next. Step number
three is pre-ell your solution. Don't
build and then pray you can sell it.
Most people build companies, spend
money, hire folks, and they don't even
have an order. They don't have a
customer. They don't have any proof that
the customer wants your offer. I have
never in my life ever started a company
where I didn't pre-ell it first. Period.
Full stop. Every software company I've
pre-sold, every service company I've
pre-sold, every coaching company I
pre-sold. I actually was involved in the
largest physical hardware crowdfunding
offer for a product called Lomi where we
sold I think $7 million worth of product
before it was ever made. Crowdfunding is
a multi-billion dollar market and they
pre-ell before they actually physically
develop any hardware and deliver it to
the market. If you think about it, just
even in like AI automation space, people
hire consultants all the time, prepay
them 50% for the opportunity before they
even show up to start doing the work.
This is kind of normal. I remember one
time I was hearing about this new venue
that opened up in New York City and they
were wondering if people wanted to go to
a cheese museum. So, they pre-sold a
bunch of tickets to see if anybody had
an interest in going to a cheese museum.
Luckily, they sold so many tickets, they
definitely opened the doors, but I heard
the person didn't even have a lease
signed for the location. So, when you
bought the ticket, the location said
TBD. That's called pre-selling. And if
they wouldn't have sold anything, they
just wouldn't have signed a lease. They
would have gave the money back for all
the people that bought the tickets. Easy
peasy. You can do the same thing for
your AI company. So, to really have this
land, I'm going to make this super
simple for you. We're going to do a
5-day AI assisted pre-elling sprint. Day
one is you have to draft your onepage
offer. So, I'm going to give you the
steps on what needs to be in there with
examples. Take what I say, put it in
chat GPT, and give it your specific
example. It'll write this for you. So,
the first thing is we have to lead with
an outcome. The outcome is what you're
selling. So using the example from
earlier like helping people get an
appointments you could say I can help
you get 10 qualified appointments over
the next 30 days without you the
customer having to answer one single
phone call. That's the outcome. Then I
want to define my unique mechanism.
Essentially like what makes you
different? What is it about how you do
it that's different from other people
they might be getting calls from selling
them AI automation. So you would say we
use our dials to deal system. See, we
named it that answers, qualifies, and
books appointments while you sleep or
you're working on your business. That's
the value prop. The next section is we
have to create scarcity and urgency
because people won't make a decision if
you don't give them a reason to. So,
you'll also say once you read, just let
me know if you have any questions or if
you're in cuz I only got a few spots to
start with new customer. See, the are
you in being last presupposes they're
ready to go and it doesn't leave them
with do you have any questions. Oftent
times we lose sales because we give the
objection to the buyer to ask us. It's
kind of wild to watch. Again, just write
this into Chad GBT and it'll help you
create that offer. Then we have to
create some kind of risk reversal. Most
people would buy if there's some level
of guarantee. So you could say something
like get your first appointment
scheduled in the first 7 days or your
money back. Essentially, there's no risk
to them. So I've spent years refining
this process, testing and tweaking
offers that actually convert, and I've
distilled it all into a simple
plug-and-play template. And to make this
so easy for you to apply on the things
we've covered today, I'm going to give
it to you for free. So just click the
link in the description below and grab
it and start building an irresistible
offer in minutes. Day two is build a
list. Now we have to do the research for
the companies that we think would be
ideal customers to buy from. See, most
people get discouraged because they
don't have enough people to talk to. If
you start with at least a hundred target
companies and you have all the
information, the numbers, the emails,
who they are, their information on
LinkedIn, all that stuff, then your brain
doesn't be like, "Oh no, this
person didn't answer my call or they
didn't reply to my email." The cool part
is we actually can use AI to build our
list. So, I want you to open up AI and
just say, "Find me a hundred people that
are like your perfect customer." The
person we talked about earlier that
would buy from you easily, right? That
boring business that has the pain. the
pain is the thing you're going to solve
for them, right? So, if it's like not
being able to take calls and you just
give it some direction and tell it to go
on LinkedIn for your city to find
potential people that might be a target
customer. So then you tell it to save it
in a Google sheet and then write a
personalized snippet for you to copy
paste and use in your call or your email
to that person. So all the heavy lifting
or the fear of like how do I get this
person to respond to my email? The AI
will write you that snippet or what do I
say when I call? Have it write the cold
call intro when you call based on
something it found online. Do you see
how much time this will save you? Day
three and four. Now we got to reach out
to buyers. So here's a cold call script
you can use to get people to respond and
buy from you. It's very simple. Now
freestyle it. Play with it. There's no
script that's just copy paste. Read it
like a freaking robot. It won't work.
Okay? Okay. So, when I call, I'll say
something like, "Hey, quick one, Bob. I
help other plumbers get customers to buy
over the phone without having to take
any more calls. I'm open up 10 pilot
spots and the investment is only $5,000.
Do you want me to send the one pager?"
That one pager is the offer sheet that
we created on the first step. To make
this super simple, just go use your.com
to do the cold calls on your behalf and
book calls for you or have it answer any
qualifying inbound calls. So,
essentially, use the AI that I just
talked about to help you and your
business. Isn't that wild? Day five is
doing those calls to close the deal. To
do that, I'm going to unpack my
proprietary rocket selling system, which
is a ninebox model to help you do that
call that's going to get people to buy
50% of the time. You just follow the
process. Even people that have never
sold before, if you don't skip these
nine steps, can get people to buy. Step
number one is the setup. The whole
rapport thing about where you from and
what do you like in your sports team,
that's gone. People want experts. An
expert sets up the agenda. They audition
the buyer. They say, "Look, we're not
for everybody. I'm going to figure out
if I can be helpful. If I can, I can
tell you how that looks. If I can't,
I'll tell you that as soon as possible."
Step two is learn about the customer.
Who are they? How do they get started?
What do they sell? How much do they sell
it for? What is the problem they're
trying to solve? Like, learn more about
who they are as an individual so that
when you present your solution, they
feel like it's customized and
personalized. The third step is I call
it the decision. And these two questions
will get people to buy and change the
whole frame when it comes to selling.
Ask them, why did you decide to get on
the call? See, asking the person, "Ah
why me now?" Now, they might say, "Well,
I don't know. You just cold call me." I
say, "I get it, but you probably get a
bunch of calls from people, but I'm
curious. What did I share with you that
made you feel like I was a person that
might be able to help you?" Because that
gets them selling you to them. See how
powerful that is? Asking somebody why me
is one of the best frames in sales to
really get the person to convince
themselves that they should do business
with you. The second question is why
now? What makes this a now time? What is
it in your life that made this painful
enough for you to decide to say yes?
What's going on in your situation that
you want this solution now? They might
tell you, well, I was talking to my
friend and he said if I don't learn AI,
I'll never be able to be competitive in
the future and I'm scared that my
business won't be around in the future.
That why now gives you all the
information you need to get the deal
done. The fourth is the results. I
always think about the results is like
what do they want to accomplish? How
much money do they want to make? How
much freedom they want from their
business? How do they want to feel about
their day? If I can get them clear about
the future that they're excited about,
that creates a gap. The fifth step is
the reality. I think about, you know,
where are you at today? Tell me about
your business. Tell me about your team.
Tell me about the ownership structure.
How are you doing your calls today? You
want to get all the information that you
can learn about who they are today
because that's how I qualify them. How
often have you tried to sell something
to somebody to find out they actually
don't even have any other employees or
they don't have enough customers in the
first place? Those questions should be
written down for every customer you talk
to because that's going to give you the
information to actually decide if you're
going to move forward in the sales call.
The sixth step is the roadblocks. Once I
know what they want to accomplish and I
know where they're at, then I want to
figure out the roadblocks. what's gotten
in the way from them achieving their
goals. Ask them and then save their
answers for later. This is where the
sale happens. See, if I can stretch the
gap between the pain of their existence
today and what they're frustrated with
and the potential future of what they
want to accomplish tomorrow and I pull
that apart, that tension is where the
sale is made. The seventh step is you
have to present some kind of model, some
kind of process, some kind of
methodology or result. See, we named it
when we talked about our offer. We say
what's our unique mechanism? When we
reference that again and talk about the
model of how it works, then the person
feels like, oh, this is something they
do all the time. This is a mature thing.
This is not some like person off the
street that's just trying to sell me
something. They actually have a process
for getting the results for me. Then
step number eight is where we make the
offer. Now that I understand what their
goals are, I understand where they're at
and I know what's gotten in the way. My
offer document only talks about the pain
that they've experienced in the past and
how I solve that. So if they said, you
know, in the past it's been hard to find
the time to do the work. I say, well,
that's why we have this specific benefit
and it helps you get the time to do the
work. So I match the thing that's been a
roadblock in the past to my offer for
how I'm going to help them today. It
maps the simple outcome they want to the
problem that they've been dealing with.
That's what makes it an irresistible
offer and it makes a sales process so
simple. The last step is the ask. And
the ask is about getting them enrolled
in your service, getting them on board
as a customer. I always go three times.
See, average people ask once, the person
says no, they move on. Or the person
says, "Ah, that's interesting. Send me
stuff. I'll think about it." No, ask for
the deal. It's like, okay, I can send
you stuff for sure. No problem. I'm just
curious. When I send that over, what are
you going to look at to help you make a
better decision? and then they tell you,
then you go over it and you ask them for
the deal. Again, if you don't learn how
to ask three times, no matter what they
say, then you're not actually selling.
You're just order taking. And that's the
difference maker. Now, for whatever
reason, if they decide they can't make a
decision today, I want you to do a thing
called BAMF fam. Bam fam is book a
meeting from a meeting. Meaning, I don't
hang up that phone until I've confirmed
we're going to schedule a time to talk
about what they had concerns about in
the future. I'm going to send them the
email. They're going to confirm that
calendar invite and then I'm going to
say something very simple, which is if
for whatever reason something comes up,
you can't make that call, could you do
me the honor of letting me know ahead of
time so I can open up that spot and give
it to somebody else that's looking to
move forward with us. When I get their
verbal commitment, trust me, the
no-shows, the ghosting goes away because
people want to be consistent with the
commitments they made to you. That
nine-step process for selling will help
you get the deals and get to a million
in revenue using AI automation faster
than anything else. Now, remember, if
you haven't grabbed my free offer
template below, just make sure you do it
ASAP. It might not be up forever. It'll
make everything that we just talked
about in this video 10 times easier.
Links in the description. Now, I know
that's a lot. I just gave you
essentially a master class in making a
million dollars using AI automation, but
the truth is it works. I do it every
month, and you can do it for yourself.
your wealthy life. It sits on the other
side of you getting over the fear of
getting started. Everybody wants to be
right. They want to have it perfect.
They want to have it ready to go. I'm
telling you, the people that get rich,
they worry about making the decision
then making it right. If you do that,
you will be on your way to make a
million dollars with AI. It's your time
right now to take advantage of it.
There's a window of opportunity that's
going to go away. So, if you don't do
something ASAP, it'll pass you by. And
if you want to learn how to build a
business that runs itself, just click
the video and I'll see you on the other
