Most people think they're using AI the
smart way, but they're actually getting
dumber. The smartest people I know
aren't using AI to get answers. They're
using it to upgrade their entire brain,
and the gap between them and everyone
else is growing every single day. I've
built AI into every part of how I run my
business. I'm talking my team, my
learning, my decision-making. Martell
Ventures alone, my AI incubator, is on
track to break 250 million in enterprise
value this year. This way of thinking is
a huge part of how they'll get there.
I'm going to show you how to use AI to
upgrade the way you think, how to use it
to make every decision bulletproof, and
how to make AI a part of who you are,
not just something you use. Starting
with the biggest mistake everyone is
making, the calculator trap.
Most people are using AI to do tasks
faster, things like emails, summaries,
or slide decks. But that's using a
supercomputer as a calculator. The
people pulling ahead use AI to think
better, learn faster, and make smarter
decisions. I mean, I remember reading a
Harvard study where they tested whether
AI tutors could actually help students
learn, not just get work done faster.
So, what they did is they had two
separate groups, students who used the
AI tutor and those who didn't. The ones
who did improve their test scores by
twice as much, and they finished in less
time. So, they got better and faster.
That's why you want to stop treating
your AI like a calculator. It can do way
more. So, if saving time is just the
surface level, what's the actual unlock?
Well, let's start with the easiest
upgrade most people completely ignore,
upgrading your inputs.
Gen Z was the first generation in 100
years to score lower than their parents
on IQ, memory, reading, and focus.
Because of these new technologies and
people didn't understand how it was
going to change everything. The
screen-based consumption replaced the
deep, deep learning. Your brain is a
machine. It takes information in and
ideas come out. If you put garbage in,
guess what's going to come out? A lot
more of that. Brain rot, doom scrolling,
random nonsense, this is all just equals
junk ideas. Premium inputs, like organic
food, are things like frameworks, expert
knowledge, insights, and those produce
better ideas. A long time ago, I
realized my ideas were only as good as
my data. So, I subsidized my curiosity.
I had my AI assistant set up a dedicated
Slack DM for me every morning. It went
out there. It looked for the top
breakthroughs, the news, the information
around four core buckets. For me, it was
frontier models and AI, robotics,
infrastructure, and the tools. No fluff.
I'm talking signal, because I need that
to feed my mind. The quality of your
output is a direct reflection of the
quality of your inputs. So, here are
three ways to upgrade your inputs today.
The first one, it's my favorite, is
reset your social algorithm. Go into
your settings, go under content
preferences, and reset your suggested
content. And most platforms have this
setting. Instagram has it, TikTok has
it. It wipes your explore page, your
Reels, and your feed clean for you to
start over. Then, go look up the stuff
that you want to master and engage in.
And then like, save, and comment on that
content. That tells the algorithm, "Hey,
I like this." And on Instagram, they
even have a button that says your
algorithm, and you can tell it exactly
what you want to be fed. Most people
just don't realize that the algorithm
that is used in these platforms is
actually powered by AI, and it is a
reflection of you. It is a mirror of
you. That's why I always say, use your
feed to feed your mind. Number two,
build your own daily newsletter. That
thing I told you I do every day? You do
it. So, use AI to go scrape news sources
in the categories every morning that you
need to know. So, here's the prompt to
do that, really simple. You're my daily
AI research assistant. Each morning,
find the top three developments in this,
this, and this. Summarize each one of
them into two sentences with the source
links, cuz want to click through and
read more. And then, the key for me is
tell me why it matters. And then format
it as a quick briefing I can read in
under 3 minutes. Keep it entertaining
and easy to digest. Within 3 minutes
every morning, for me on a treadmill,
I'm getting caught up, up to date on
everything that's important in my
industry. Which brings us to the third
way that you can upgrade your inputs,
which is use Notebook LM to learn your
way. I call it accelerated consumption.
Essentially, you can go into it, give it
any topic, and then it takes that all
and it creates like this mini AI brain
just on that topic. So, you can chat
with it and ask it questions. The
coolest feature is it can create other
media from that research. So, it can
create PowerPoint slides. It can create
an infographic. It can create a quiz. It
can create flashcards. It can even
create a podcast. And the coolest
feature is you click the button and you
can call in and ask it questions. I call
it just in time versus just in case.
Most people are consuming information.
books. They're talking to friends, just
in case someday I might need to use it.
Sound like school, doesn't it? I like to
do just in time, where I am using it to
feed myself the information that I'm
going to use to make a decision this
afternoon. And look, if you're really
serious about upgrading your inputs for
yourself and for your business, I
created this AI company operating system
that teaches the top CEOs how to
implement AI so their teams and their
processes become AI first. So, just DM
me AI business on Instagram and I'll
send it right over to you. So, now
you're feeding your brain better
information. Thumbs up. Next, we have to
find the real power that comes only when
you use AI to upgrade your outputs.
Here's the problem. Every bad business
decision started with a great idea that
nobody challenged. Nobody said anything,
and next thing you know, it cost you 6
months or $50,000. Our brain is wired to
fall in love with our own ideas, because
it sees all the fit in all of our ideas,
and it ignores all these fatal flaws.
Back in 1985, the company Intel were
making profits of 198 million, and then
they crashed down to 2 million in 1
year. Essentially, the Japanese
competitors came in and they destroyed
them around memory chips. Andy Grove,
who I consider a legend, Intel's
president at the time, sat down with
co-founder Gordon Moore, went back and
forth for months with what to do. And
honestly, they couldn't come up with an
answer. And then Grove asked a beautiful
question that I ask most of my coaching
clients, which is, if we got fired by
the board and they brought in a new CEO,
what would he do immediately? And Moore
said, "He'd get us out of memories."
They had the answer the whole time, but
they couldn't see it. They were blind
because they had emotional attachment to
the business they had built. A single
pre-mortem question, that's what it's
called, led them to pivot into
processors. Intel then became one of the
largest tech companies in history,
leading to $52 billion in revenue. One
honest question about their ideas got
them clear, and they built a mega
company. So, my question to you is, what
are you pretending not to know? If
somebody came into your business today,
knowing your industry, what's the first
change they would make? And if you know
the answer to that, my question to you
is is why haven't you made it yet? So,
here's the solution to that problem, and
this is where AI really comes in. It's
called red teaming, right? It's a
military concept. Essentially,
intentionally try to kill your own plan
before the enemy does. It's kind of like
doing devil's advocate, or what's called
steelmanning. AI is the perfect red team
partner, because it has no ego. It does
not hold back, and it has infinite
knowledge about a lot of stuff. So, it
can attack you from 10 different angles
in 30 seconds, and it's so cheap you can
fail 100 times for free instead of
losing 100,000 every time you test a new
idea. So, before you ship your next big
idea, can you please red team it with
AI? But do it in this specific order.
First, ask it to find the fatal flaw.
Okay, this is a pre-mortem. Prompt it,
"If this project fails in 6 months from
now, why did that happen?" Cuz then what
happens is it works backwards through
from the disaster, that single point of
failure, and it figures out where you
should try to fortify the idea so you
don't have that thing happen to you. The
second is you want to eliminate blind
spots. So, here's the prompt for the AI.
You are a cynical, highly successful
competitor. Now, analyze this plan and
tell me exactly how you'd exploit the
weaknesses to steal my customers. Now,
the key is, if you want this to really
blow your mind, give it your
constraints, your timelines, your
resources. I'm talking if you want to
give it access to your CRM, to your
internal documents, so that it can
really push back. The third is risk
ranking. So, this is the prompt. Rank
the top three risks by likelihood and
impact. Then build a contingency plan
for each. That will turn all your fears
into a checklist. A list of vulnerable
ideas into answers on how you can defend
each one of them in that checklist. The
more I do this, the more I realize that
the decisions that seem obvious are the
ones that almost need the most scrutiny.
Cuz like, your brain is 100% hiding
something from you if it is just quick
to get to a thing, and you got to go
like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa. Why did I
decide that, and how do I have the AI to
put me in check?" So, now that you're
feeding your brain premium inputs and
[music] stress testing every output,
here's the shift that makes all this
stick. Point number four, your new
identity.
So, what you're going to do is you're
going to pick a new name, and you're
going to go and change your name, and
you're going to be that new person.
That's what we're doing.
Problem solved. No, I'm just kidding.
But the truth is, if what you want out
of life you don't have in your life,
then who you are today isn't the right
version of you to get that. And I call
this the 92% rule. AI can now handle 92%
of your tasks. Now, you might [music]
pretend not to know this, but I'm going
to tell you. It can do writing. It can
do research. It can do analysis. It can
It can scheduling. It can do drafting.
it can build things for you. So, your
new identity has to be one of director,
not doer. This is going to be hard for a
lot of people. You come in at the end at
that 8%. [music]
That 8% is three things. It is taste,
knowing what looks great. It is vision,
understanding what the future should
look like that doesn't exist, that
should. And it is care, it's the
emotional connection, it's the ability
to talk to people and show ideas and get
involvement and enroll people. That's
what you do as a human that AI will
always have a hard time. A couple years
ago, I came into my team and I sat them
down and I looked at them in a very
loving and positive way and I said,
"You're all cooked. And I need you to
listen, please. I need you all to sit
down and decide what is that 92%? What
can you engage and invite and co-create
with AI to help you get all this time
back cuz I want you to stick around. I
don't want to not work with you. And if
your work's being done by the AI, game
on." Okay, that 8% is where the talent
lies.
>> [music]
>> And that's why we have to change our
identity and our beliefs around it or
you'll always feel stuck as a doer. See,
the best leaders don't do the work, they
orchestrate it. That is the future of
AI. So, here's what I need you to do
right now. The first thing is we got to
gather every task you do on a typical
week. Sit down and write them down. Look
at your calendar, look at your projects
list, and just break them down into like
15-30 minute like chunks of things you
do. And then the second step is you put
them all in a quadrant. And this
quadrant should help you understand how
to be future-proof forever. So, on the
bottom of the X axis, you want to have a
hard for humans, easy for humans. And on
the Y axis, you want to have easy for
computers, hard for computers. Then you
go look in the top right quadrant and
ask yourself, "What are the things that
would make it hard for a computer to do,
but easy for human?" Think about it.
Things like detecting sarcasm in
conversations, reading emotional tone in
a room, making ethical judgment calls in
messy situations. Those things computers
will have a hard time with. So, when you
look at your list, you find that 8%.
That usually should be in the top right
quadrant. So, circle the ones that
require taste, your vision, your care,
the emotion, the ones that without you
just don't get done well and are super
important. And then the rest, we bring
it to step number four, which is
automate the 92%.
How can you delegate the rest to AI? You
might be still pretending that AI is
chat. It is way more than that. The
tools can automate things, the tools can
think for you, the tools can go from
prompt to completed project itself with
no human involvement. And if you've
never heard of any of these tools, can
you please just go on my YouTube channel
and search AI and Dan Martell and you
will see me break these down
step-by-step, super easy. I even give
you the scripts and the tools and the
configurations and the prompts, all for
free. So, my question is, what can you
automate this week? If you want one of
my favorite tools around this, go check
out Manis AI. And for the nerds that
really want to take this to another
level, check out Open Claw. In the
quadrant which is easy for computer and
hard for human, that's where you want to
start automating your
That's the one shift from an identity
point of view that you need to make.
But, to wrap all that up, let me just
share this. I think in the future
there's only going to be two types of
people. There're going to be consumers
and creators. Be a creator. Be a
director. Be somebody that partners with
the AI to create. People who use AI to
improve themselves versus there's people
who use AI to cut corners. Those are two
different things. That will literally be
what separates those who win versus
those who get left behind. You started
this video using AI like a fancy Google
search. Now you have the playbook to use
it as a brain upgrade, as a sparring
partner, as a leadership multiplier, as
a tool to level up your identity. So, I
need you to leave a comment below.
What's one way you're going to use AI to
level up your thinking? Tell me what
you're going to do cuz guess what? I
don't want your AI to tell me, I want
you to tell me. Put it in the comments
below. And remember, if you want my full
AI company operating system with all the
system prompts and the tools that I use
to run my business, just DM me AI
business on Instagram and I'll send it
right over. Next up, if you want to know
the 20 AI tools that will make you rich,
click here and I'll see you on the other
side.
