Look at the quality of this build, guys.
This is a 31 billion open source Apache
license model, and it's building at the
same level as much better models. Now, I
have a theory. If you pair this with
some other really good model, like Opus
or one of the better Gemini models, you
will be able to build incredible
websites pretty much for free. This
model is currently free on Open Router,
and I'm going to show you just how good
it is in this video. Look at the quality
of this. This is better than Opus. I'm
not even kidding. The UI/UX of this is
better than Opus. The SEO here is better
than Opus. Do you know how insane that
is for a 31 billion model? This model
has no business being this good.
Let's jump into things.
Now, this model has not been getting
that much hype, and I'm not really sure
why. People Gemma 4 31 bill, 250 262,000
contacts, completely free on Open Router
as of today. I will say something off
the bat. I can almost guarantee this
model is better than GLM 5.1, for
example. It's better than Alibaba, in my
opinion, and it's completely free.
Not only that, but this free version
right here is actually pretty fast on
Open Router uh on Open Code. I just
built the entire website you saw before
in 10 to 15 minutes with this model.
Now, one thing I have to call out though
from Google.
I have to say I'm super disappointed by
this. It's been almost a week since this
model was released. I've been checking
every single day to see if the model is
available here inside Antigravity, and
it's still not available. They have
GPT-OSS
right here. They have Opus 4.6, Sonic
4.6, Gemini 3 Flash, Gemini 3.1 Pro.
Where the hell is Gemma? Why is Gemma
not inside here? Surely that makes sense
for Google to have their cheapest model
inside Antigravity. They literally have
GPT open source. Where the hell is
Gemma? Sort it out, Google. Honestly, I
don't understand what the hell they're
playing at.
With that being said, guys, let's jump
into things. So, first of all, you want
to make sure that you're on the latest
version of Open Code. So, I'm just going
to write Open Code.
So, it's this command right here. Open
Code Models {dash} {dash} refresh. Then,
you want to write that. And then, what
you can do is you can actually look for
Gemma like this, and just press enter a
few times, and make sure that you have
Open Router Gemma 4 31B IT free. This
model right here is the model that you
need in order to use this entire coding
system completely for free, guys.
There's no cost here. Zero. Absolutely
crazy stuff that this is even a thing.
Not only that, but if you have a decent
computer, you can run this on your local
system and use it inside Ollama. Now,
unfortunately, my Mac is not powerful
enough. The next Mac that I buy, I
promise you guys, I'll get one that is
powerful enough, right? But, this one
here is only 24 gig memory. So,
unfortunately, I cannot run the new
Gemma models on it. The next time I get
a Mac, probably in about 6 months, I
would guess, I will make sure that I get
one that is powerful enough to run these
models locally.
This is a huge step forward for open
source, guys. I'll tell you why, because
previously, these models were just
nothing. They were complete trash, and
only things like GLM,
and also Qwen 3.6, were even close to
being at I'm just going to say Opus
level. It's cliche, I understand, but
close to Opus kind of level. They're not
Opus level, obviously, but they're close
to it. They're as close as open source
models get. The problem with these
models is just how large they are.
This model here, for example, is
397
para billion parameters, right? Which
means you need 397 gigabytes of memory,
as far as I understand it. I'm not an
expert on these things, but I'm pretty
sure that's what it means, right? Which
is absolutely crazy. But, as of today,
you can run Gemma 4
31B
if you just have a normal computer,
right?
So, a lot of people will have this kind
of memory, right? Um my computer
upstairs, for example, has 128 gigabytes
of memory. I could easily run this model
for free on Ollama on that computer,
right? Now, I don't, because I'm using
my Mac all the time, but just so you
know, if you have a I don't know, RTX
4090, probably even a 3060, 3090,
something like that, you will most
likely be able to run this model
completely for free, right? So, all you
do is you get Ollama, you get the model,
and then you connect Open Code and
Ollama together, and you can run this
for free. Now, this is the prompt that I
did. This is just a normal the school
community prompt. I'll be doing more
tests, more in-depth tests. I'll build a
SaaS with this. I'll build an Astro
website with this. But, this is always
the first test I do. If a model cannot
pass this test properly, in my opinion,
there's no point to continue testing
this model. However, it managed to smash
it. Now, one thing I have to say is it
did stop immediately, and it said, "I
can't even find my next app. Where is
it?" This is a test to see how good
models are at just continuing with
things, right? Because the prompt says,
"You are inside a new Next.js project."
But, there is no Next.js project, right?
So, this is a test to see how good a
model is at dealing with this problem,
and whether it will just continue or if
it will ask for help. So, Gemma asked
for help. It said, "Look, there is no
What What the hell do you want to do?"
So, I just said, "Start from scratch."
And I said, "Don't use superpowers." I
don't really want it to use um skills. I
just wanted to do like a base test. So,
I said, "Don't use superpowers. Just get
on with it." And then, bang. Look at
this. It just started building, started
building, started building. Really,
really nice build originally. Really
good technical build, which is one of
the main things I have to say. And then,
it said, "I've successfully
initialized." And I didn't like this
word, initialized. That means like it's
half-assed it, basically, right? Which
is normal. And I said, "Start the site."
And then, there was a little problem
where it was going to {slash} en {slash}
en {slash} en, which it fixed. And I
said, "Needs a header and a footer, and
also just like 100 times more detail
than we're done. Thanks." Really simple
prompt again.
Bang. Header. Bang. Footer. Okay, let's
make some updates. Let's make it more
detailed, etc., etc. Look at this. Bang.
Bang. Bang. You could say again like,
"Keep
making this more detailed. Especially,
make the home page wow people, right?"
And then, it's just going to go. It's
going to continue. It's going to keep
improving. So, I will say with this
model, it's not very good at just
running with it and building the entire
thing from A to Z completely from
scratch without you prompting it a
second time. But, that's fine. I don't
mind that. If you have to prompt it two
times, three times, it's free. Like,
what do we care about bloody prompting
it a couple of times, guys? Let's be
honest. So, this is what I came up with,
like I showed you at the beginning of
the video. The technical build is
perfect. There's pretty much not a
single dead link anywhere, which is
really rare for a model. Not only that,
it's done things like I really Look Look
at this.
This You never see little animations
like this, right? If you gave this the
ability to find images online or
generate its own images with Nano Banana
Pro, which is really easy to do, you
just add it to a skill,
this would look even better. So, imagine
there were actual images here, which
I'll do a test on that as well.
Uh let's just see if the Italian works
properly. So, let's go here. Let's go
here. Let's go here. Okay, Italian works
perfectly. Oh, this is in English
though, actually,
which is a bit of a problem. That's
okay. It just All this means is that it
didn't translate all of the content,
right? It just translated some of the
content. Let's see how the Italian is.
So, noleggio auto lusso per matrimonio
in this place.
Fine. Not bad at all.
I would say this is minus points for not
translating everything.
I want to be completely open and
transparent with people. Normally, I
would expect this to have translated
everything, but it didn't. This is
interesting. This is a Claude thing.
Claude does this all the time. So, you
know, maybe
maybe they trained this on Wow, look at
that. Maybe they trained this on
Claude's outputs, similar to how other
open source or how Chinese open source
did.
But, look at this quality.
Jesus. And the fact that it's like
managed to put Salerno down here, which
if you don't know, Salerno is like the
beginning of the Costa d'Amalfi Tano,
the Amalfi Coast in uh Campania, right?
So, it's really interesting that it's
got that kind of detail, that level of
detail. It's got nice animations. Let's
see how this looks on mobile. Let's see
if it's completely messed up on mobile.
It's actually not completely messed up
on mobile. It's It's actually fine on
mobile as well. Look at that. It's added
this thing at the very top. Now, this,
I'll tell you right now, this is a
hallmark of Claude, right? When you When
I see this, I think by coded Claude,
right? So, that's very interesting that
it's put that. My guess is Google has
trained this model on the output of
Sonic 4.6 and Opus 4.6. That's just my
opinion. It's not an an accusation, not
legal advice, all that good stuff, but
in my opinion, it looks like that they
have actually just done the thing that
the Chinese models did as well, which is
train their models models on the output
of Opus 4.6. I don't really care though,
cuz at the end of the day, this model is
small enough to run on a bloody
computer, a normal computer, probably
your computer. If you go and look right
now at how much memory you've got and it
builds as well as Opus. The technical
build here is perfect. I need to see how
this builds a SAS and whether it's
possible, but I believe it would be.
Just before we end the video guys, just
a quick shout out from our sponsor me.
This is Harbor SEO.ai.
It's a tool that I've been working on
for about 2 years now, but in the last 3
months we've shipped more updates than
were shipped in the first 2 years of
this product. For example, you can now
scan your website for site health and
technical SEO issues and then fix them
automatically with Harbor AI, which will
literally inject metadata into your
website and one-click fix your entire
website metadata. Not only that, we
recently updated the writer to increase
the quality of the writer. Now it uses
Sonic 4.6.
And the pricing guys, it's Oh my god,
look at that. 431 clicks. What the hell?
Crazy. That's gone up like 150 in just a
few days. So 107
pages published, 37,000 impressions, 431
clicks. This is getting real clicks for
real businesses and helping people make
sales every single day.
Now the pricing is 29 a month, 25
articles a month. It's more than fair.
Unlimited articles, unlimited research
runs, 49 a month, 50 articles a month,
unlimited sites or 99 a month, 100
articles a month. You will not get
better than this product right here. I'm
telling you. This is good for a SAS
project. This is good for any website,
any business. It can scrape anything and
write context-aware content for your
business. It doesn't matter what CMS
you're on. It doesn't matter where
you're hosted. This thing will write
amazing content for you and we have huge
ideas coming such such as agency, which
is coming very very soon, which will
basically allow you to run an entire
agency in a box, write content for
people, get backlinks, create
pages for people and also content
clusters, topical authority, spy on
their competitors and much more for $29
a month or 29 euros a month.
There's a link to Harbor in the
description and in the pinned comment.
Thank you so much for watching guys. If
you are watching all the way to the end
of this video, you're an absolute legend
and I'll see you very very soon with
some more content.
Peace out.